1082832	[Anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic actions of 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-3-N, N-dimethylcarbamoyl-5-methoxypyrazole (PZ-177)]	We have reported that PZ-177 was found to have potent inhibitory activity on acute inflammatory edema. In this paper, the anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic properties of PZ-177 were assessed by a battery of standard tests. PZ-177 inhibited the increased vascular permeability induced by histamine, xylene and acetic acid. The activity was the same as the anti-edematous one and was more potent than that of mepirizole. PZ-177 did not inhibit ultraviolet erythema in guinea pigs, proliferation of granulation tissue in cotton pellet and granuloma pouch tests of rats and adjuvant arthritis in rats. Wound healing was not prolonged and the agent was weak in ulcerogenic action. PZ-177 did not affect heat denaturation of bovine serum albumin at pH 5.3, but inhibited hyperthermic hemolysis at pH 7.4 and exerted a stabilizing effect on biological membranes. This is considered to be one of the mechanisms of action. When analgesic action was tested by the writhing and Haffner's methods in mice, the compound revealed a more potent activity than did mepirizole and aminopyrine. Utilizing the Randall-Selitto's analgesic method in rats, a significant rise in pain threshold was obtained only at the inflamed foot. The antipyretic action was less than aminopyrine in febrile rabbits. From the above results, PZ-177 may be classified as a potent analgesic and anti-inflammatory agent but has no effect on proliferation of granulation tissue and chronic inflammatory disease.
6316563	Herpes simplex virus and congenital malformations.	We have reported a case of transplacentally transmitted herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection in association with both congenital malformations and other serious abnormalities, including facial abnormalities, microcephaly, cerebral atrophy, and microscopic cranial calcifications. Before death, the infant showed marked neurologic deficits, seizures, and respiratory distress. Serum IgM and complement fixing antibodies to HSV were elevated at birth. Light and electron microscopy and immunofluorescence studies confirmed the presence of the virus.
6343918	An historical perspective on the law of personality and status with special regard to the human fetus and the rights of women.	The law of status enabled primitive societies to deal with the rights and duties of different types of persons--including the fetus and its bearer--within the group without the need to create elaborate social mechanisms and legal enforcement to install and perpetuate order in the society. Roman law acknowledged and classified personal status as the primary subject of law. English common law held that the principal aim of society was to protect individuals in their enjoyment of absolute rights. As contract replaced status as the focus of American Constitutional law, personhood became recognized as a potential only after fetal viability.
6364955	Intracellular electrolytes and hormonal parameters during weight reduction.	The mechanisms of the blood pressure lowering effect of weight reduction have not yet been fully elucidated. In this study the intracellular electrolyte composition and hormonal parameters were monitored in 12 obese subjects during a 10-day diet with 800 kcal/day. A decrease in intracellular free Na+ (p less than 0.05) and Mg2+ (p less than 0.01) and in total intracellular K+ (p less than 0.05) was observed. Furthermore, plasma aldosterone and renin activity (p less than 0.05) increased, probably due to a moderate simultaneous salt restriction. There was also an increase in plasma PGI2 concentration (p less than 0.05). The observed decrease in intracellular free Na+ may be caused by salt restriction. The decrease in intracellular K+ and free Mg2+ may be induced by hormonal factors, e.g. an altered insulin secretion. Possible causes for the known hemodynamic effects of weight reduction are the diminution of intracellular Na+ and the increase in plasma PGI2.
6370941	The meaning of sperm capacitation. A historical perspective.	It should be recalled that sperm capacitation was originally defined in 1952 as some physiological changes of the spermatozoa in the female genital tract before they are capable of penetrating and fertilizing the eggs. It was found further that capacitation can be achieved outside the female tract, first in the presence of biological fluids, and then in the absence of biological fluids. Later on it was found that capacitated rabbit uterine spermatozoa still have acrosome and that the acrosome reaction of rabbit spermatozoa occurred in contact with eggs in the oviduct. Thus, several authors separated acrosome reaction from capacitation and considered capacitation as a preparation for the acrosome reaction, even though the titles of their articles still implied that capacitation included acrosome reaction. During the past 30 years we have found many membrane changes on the molecular and immunological level in spermatozoa that prepare them for physiological changes such as &quot;hyperactivation,&quot; and morphological changes such as &quot;the acrosome reaction.&quot; These events lead to more vigorous motility and to the release of various enzymes for the penetration of the egg. Undoubtedly, further study will reveal more molecular, physiological, and morphological changes in the mammalian spermatozoa before they are capable of fertilization. There are definite changes before hyperactivation and acrosome reaction, but these changes are parts of capacitation, if we prefer to keep its original meaning. It is proposed here that in order to save further confusion, capacitation of spermatozoa should be defined as originally proposed, that is, to include all the events that lead to the development of the capacity of mammalian spermatozoa to penetrate eggs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
6384162	Is misonidazole neurotoxicity altered by the use of phenytoin and/or dexamethasone in RTOG 79-18 and RTOG 79-16?	An analysis of Misonidazole (MISO) neurotoxicity in RTOG 79-16 and RTOG 79-18 was undertaken to evaluate the incidence of neurotoxicity relative to dexamethasone dose and phenytoin use. MISO was administered as follows: 79-16 arm A, 1 gm/m2 5 days a week for a total of 10 gm/m2 in 2 weeks; 79-16 arm B, 2 gm/m2 twice weekly for a total of 12 gm/m2 in 3 weeks; and 79-18, 2.5 gm/m2 once a week for a total of 15 gm/m2 in 6 weeks. Practically all patients were on dexamethasone, and 240 out of 550 were on phenytoin for seizures. CNS toxicity and ototoxicity rates were no different between treatment groups with overall rates of 2.7 and 1.1%, respectively. Peripheral neuropathy (PN) was 5.1% in 79-16 arm A, 5.9% in 79-16 arm B, and 8.7% in 79-18. Phenytoin did not significantly alter CNS and PN toxicity rates. All ototoxicities occurred in patients not on phenytoin. There was no correlation between dexamethasone dose and incidence of neurotoxicity within each study. However, the incidence of (PN) for the combined studies was 6.4% (35/550) which is lower than 18.9% (85/449) for non-brain Phase III protocols where patients are rarely, if ever, on dexamethasone or other corticosteroids. Four hour and 24 hour plasma MISO levels, and 24 hour/4 hour MISO ratios did not correlate with toxicity.
6389132	Yeast tRNAAsp: codon and wobble codon-anticodon interactions. A transferred nuclear Overhauser enhancement study.	The conformations of the ribotrinucleoside bisphosphates GpApC and GpApU, the codon and wobble codon for aspartic acid respectively, bound to yeast tRNAAsp in solution, have been examined by means of time-dependent transferred nuclear Overhauser enhancement measurements to determine distances between bound ligand protons. The conformations of the two bound ribotrinucleoside bisphosphates are shown to be very similar with an overall root-mean-square difference in interproton distances of 0.03 nm. The ribose conformations of all the residues are 3'-endo; the glycosidic bond torsion angles of the A and C residues of GpApC and of the A and U residues of GpApU are in the low anti range. These features are typical of an A-RNA type structure. In contrast, the G residue of both GpApC and GpApU exists as a mixture of syn and anti conformations. The overall conformation of the two bound ribotrinucleoside bisphosphates is also similar to A-RNA and the stability of the complexes is enhanced by extensive base-base stacking interactions. In addition, it is shown that the binding of the codon GpApC to tRNAAsp induces self-association into a multicomplex system consisting of four GpApC-tRNAAsp complexes, whereas the wobble codon GpApU fails to induce any observable self-association.
6396325	[History and sidelights on the forceps]	The author starts by showing that the first forceps were originally designed to handle hot metal in founderies and that the word derived from &quot;formus&quot; (hot) and &quot;capere&quot; (to take). The author, Professor Dumont, tries to trace the history of the development of modern forceps, discussing whether the Arabs or such well known authors of classical works as Roesslin, Raynald, Rueff and Rousset knew of the instrument or whether they just described instruments of destruction. Crainz in 1941 had written an article to discuss whether the early Romans had forceps and came to no firm conclusion. Speert in 1957 said that a live baby had been born earlier than the 17th Century, possibly as early as the 2nd or 3rd century of the Roman empire, i.e. over 300 years before Jesus-Christ, by forceps. The description is given of a bas-relief depicting forceps delivery but no one knows whether the bas-relief is genuine or not. The discovery of the Chamberlen forceps in 1813 at Woodham Mortimer Hall in Essex, England, and the lengthy description of how the Chamberlens kept the secret of the invention of the forceps over several generations is very well described. Then follows the story of Jean Palfyn's &quot;mains de fer&quot; which led later to Levret and his long curved forceps. Returning to England, the authors describes how William Smellie covered his forceps with leather so that the patients should not feel the cold metal or hear the clink of the handles. The author then quotes Dr Slop, who appears in Laurence Sterne's &quot;Tristram Shandy&quot; and who knew the Smellie's forceps. Sacombe was an arch enemy of instrumental delivery. The role of the Dane Saxtorph, and how Antoine Dubois delivered Napoleon's son, the future King of Rome, by forceps, is reviewed. Madame La Chapelle and her work as well as that of Scanzoni, and finally of Simpson who first used anaesthesia after inventing a forceps, continues the history. Great names such as Pajot, Tarnier with his axis-traction forceps and finally Barton, Piper and Kielland with their inventions are all described in this beautiful history of forceps.
6398635	Assessment of vascular smooth-muscle mechanisms using isolated segments of the vessel wall.	Isolated segments of the blood vessel wall in the form of strips or rings offer advantages for the assessment of vascular smooth-muscle contractile function and its contribution to the properties of blood vessels. Several criteria must be met to obtain these advantages. These requirements are outlined in the context of an analytical framework based on the sliding filament/crossbridge model. The applicability of this model to smooth muscle is discussed, and the concept of a &quot;functional unit&quot; in the vascular wall is introduced. A functional unit is defined as all the smooth-muscle cells that are mechanically linked in series and bear equal stress. Several factors contribute to heterogeneity among functional units. The constraints imposed on the estimation of the static and dynamic mechanical properties of the smooth muscle are discussed. Various experimental strategies to minimize the effects of inhomogeneities in functional units can enhance the value of mechanical measurements.
6400921	Inhibition of metabolic cooperation in Chinese hamster V79 cells by various organic solvents and simple compounds.	Gap-junctional intercellular communication is a biological process implicated in the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation. Metabolic cooperation between 6-thioguanine-sensitive and resistant Chinese hamster cells, in vitro, has been used as a means to detect chemicals which can inhibit this form of intercellular communication. To further characterize this in vitro system as a potential screening assay for potential teratogens, tumor promoters and reproductive toxicants, a series of common solvents as well as other chemicals representing eight different functional groups, i.e., alcohols with straight or side chains, glycols, ketones, esters, ethers, phenols, aldehydes, amines and amino compounds and oxygen-heterocyclic compounds, were tested for their ability to inhibit colony-formation and to inhibit metabolic cooperation. A wide range of effects were observed which suggested a structure/activity relationship between a chemical's ability to inhibit gap junction-mediated intercellular communication and the cytotoxicity of a chemical. Possible mechanisms affecting the modulation of gap junctional communication by these chemicals are discussed.
6403786	Tumor selective enhancement of radioactivity uptake in mice treated with alpha-difluoromethylornithine prior to administration of 14C-putrescine.	A group of EMT6 tumor bearing male BALB/c mice which had been treated with alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO, a specific, irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, the enzyme which catalyzes the biosynthesis of putrescine), 8 mg/mouse, ip, 20 and 5 hrs before the 14C-putrescine dose, and a group of control animals were administered 14C-putrescine (0.5 muCi, 0.1 mCi/mmol, iv) 60 min prior to sacrifice. Radioactivity uptake data was obtained for the tumor and 13 major normal organs. In the control animals the tumor exhibited one of the highest uptakes of radioactivity. For DFMO-pretreated mice the radioactivity distribution among most of the normal tissues was not very different from that obtained for the control animals. However, the uptake into the tumor was enhanced by a factor of approximately 4. So, high tumor-to-tissue ratios (3.8, lung to 38, brain) were attained as a result of DFMO treatment.
6404823	Protective immunization against chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa pulmonary infection in rats.	Rats were immunized systemically with various doses of the polyvalent Pseudomonas aeruginosa vaccine PEV-01. After a series of two or three doses (25 to 50 micrograms each) at 8- to 11-day intervals, animals were challenged intratracheally by the agarose bead technique with a serotype 5 P. aeruginosa strain at periods of 9 to 42 days. Immunized animals developed circulating antibodies (primarily immunoglobulin M) against vaccine components at levels significantly higher than challenged, nonimmunized controls (P less than 0.005). Eight to ten days postinfection, histological sections of lungs from immunized animals showed only minimal inflammation associated with infectious foci (agarose beads) as compared with the extensive pathological changes of airways and parenchyma seen in infected nonimmunized control animals. However, no significant reduction in bacterial numbers was observed. Such protection lasted at least 6 weeks after the final immunization. It is speculated that the vaccine may contain components of cell surface proteins and virulence exoproducts.
6411831	Serotypes and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis types among disease-associated isolates of group B Neisseria meningitidis in Spain, 1976-1979.	A high annual incidence of meningococcal meningitis and septicemia occurred in Spain from 1976 through 1980 with a peak of 19 cases per 100,000 population in 1979. Approximately 80% were caused by group B Neisseria meningitidis. Studies were undertaken to determine the distribution of groups, outer membrane protein serotypes and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) types among 338 disease-associated group B isolates from six regions of Spain. The related serotypes 1, 8, and 15 accounted for 38% (129 of 338) of the isolates. Serotype 2, the major disease type in the United States, was responsible for 14% (48 of 338) of the disease in Spain and was prevalent in only one region. Forty-three percent (146 of 338) were nonserotypable. The predominant PAGE type among the nonserotypable strains was PAGE type IV (79%). These studies demonstrate the necessity of surveillance for selection of suitable serotypes to be included in protective group B meningococcal vaccines.
6414483	The effects of glibenclamide on rat islet radioactive nucleotide efflux, ATP contents and respiratory rates.	In order to assess the effects of sulphonylurea on islet function, changes in radioactive nucleotide efflux, ATP contents and oxygen uptake of low or high glucose cultured rat islets in response to glibenclamide were determined. It was observed that: (1) low glucose cultured islets displayed a prompt increase in radioactive efflux in response to glibenclamide when perfused in the presence of 1.7, 5.6 and 11.1 mM glucose. The response was most prominent in the presence of 5.6 mM glucose. (2) High glucose cultured islet did not respond to glibenclamide with increased radioactive efflux in the presence of 11.1 mM glucose, in contrast to the effects in the presence of 1.7 or 5.6 mM glucose. The sulphonylurea-induced changes could be delayed by adding glibenclamide in parallel with a decrease in glucose from 20 to 1.7 mM. (3) No effects of glibenclamide on radioactive nucleotide efflux from either low or high glucose cultured islets could be observed in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. (4) Glibenclamide decreased the islet ATP content of low glucose cultured islets in the presence of 5.6 mM glucose. On the contrary, the ATP content of high glucose cultured islets was increased by glibenclamide with 1.7 mM glucose present. (5) Islet respiration was increased by adding glucose in both high or low glucose cultured islets, although respiration in the presence of both 5.6 and 11.1 mM glucose was higher in high glucose cultured islets. (6) The addition of glibenclamide decreased oxygen uptake of low glucose cultured islets in the presence of 5.6 and 11.1 mM glucose and that of high glucose cultured islets at all glucose concentrations tested (1.7, 5.6 and 11.1 mM). It is concluded that glibenclamide-induced changes in radioactive nucleotide efflux may reflect metabolic and ionic changes of importance to islet functions.
6420305	Inhibition of bile flow in the isolated perfused rat liver by a synthetic parenteral amino acid mixture: associated net amino acid fluxes.	To identify a role for amino acids in cholestasis associated with total parenteral nutrition, we measured bile formation by the isolated perfused rat liver in the presence and absence of added amino acids. All livers were infused constantly with sodium [14C]taurocholate (0.28 mumoles per min) for 90 min. At 40 min, a primed-constant infusion of a synthetic L-amino acid mixture (121 + 19.3 mumoles of N per min) was administered for an additional 50 min. Mean bile flow rates during the amino acid infusion were reduced from 15.4 microliter per min per 10 gm liver weight to 10.4 microliter per min per 10 gm (p less than 0.005). There was no significant change during saline infusion of control livers, and there was no significant difference in perfusate osmolalities in the two groups. Although biliary recovery of infused taurocholate was slightly lower in the experimental perfusions than in controls (95.3% vs. 101.7%, p less than 0.05), there was no significant reduction in taurocholate excretion rate during the infusion in either group. Bile flow changes were related to ambient concentrations and net fluxes of individual amino acids in the perfusate. Of the 14 infused amino acids, glycine and arginine achieved levels greater than 3 times greater than reported physiological postprandial portal venous concentrations in the rat, and together constituted about 25% of the 90-min perfusate amino acids (8.3 mM). The highest net hepatic uptake was for glycine (125 mumoles per hr per 10 gm), which was almost 50% of its infusion rate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
6421686	[Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) of the upper extremities]	Amongst 1500 digital subtraction angiograms, there were 93 examinations of the arteries of the upper extremities. After intravenous contrast injection, DSA provided good demonstration of the subclavian, axillary, brachial, radial and ulnar arteries. In order to demonstrate the arteries in the hand and fingers, an intra-arterial injection of 5 ml contrast into the brachial artery has proved satisfactory. DSA makes the examination easier and quicker and reduces the risk of complications. Conventional catheter angiography is now required only for a few selected problems.
6424084	The anaerobic end-products of helminths.	Parasitic helminths belong to 3 separate phyla and there is always the danger of over-generalization. The various routes of anaerobic carbohydrate breakdown in parasitic helminths differ in their efficiencies and in their power output. The choice of end-product represents a compromise between these two conflicting forces. In addition, anaerobic pathways must satisfy the redox requirements of the tissues and provide a source of intermediates for synthetic reactions. Other considerations include the metabolic cost of excretion and the effect of end-products on protein structure and function. The different end-products may fulfil additional functions such as pH control, nitrogenous excretion, osmotic regulation, intracellular signalling and the suppression of host responses. A complicating factor in parasitic helminths is the existence of strains with different biochemical characteristics, including marked variation in end-product formation. The various tissues of the same parasite can also produce different end-products and the pattern of end-product formation is influenced by a variety of extrinsic and intrinsic factors such as age, sex, length of incubation, pO2 and availability of substrates. The catabolic pathways of helminths thus show considerable functional adaptation. There is, as yet, no satisfactory explanation as to why helminths do not make the maximum use of any oxygen available to them; and the contribution of oxidative processes to the overall energy balance of parasites probably varies from species to species. The catabolic pathways of adult helminths are derived from the anaerobic pathways present in their free-living relatives. Two main trends are evident, homolactic fermentation and carbon dioxide fixation, the latter involving a partial reverse tricarboxylic acid cycle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
6430844	Structural development of the visual system of man.	Advances in our knowledge of the developing visual system have come experimentally from animal studies and, more empirically, from clinical observations. Recently morphological techniques used in experimental animals have been applied to the study of human nervous tissue at various ages. It can be observed that the human visual system is very immature at birth, at the level of the retina, the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and the visual cortex. In the LGN and cortex there is an increase in post-synaptic surfaces (dendrites and spines) during the first postnatal months with a subsequent decrease to a lower, &quot;adult&quot; level by the second year. Synaptogenesis in the cortex is rapid after birth, with a maximum synaptic density at about 8 months. Thereafter synapses are eliminated to reach &quot;adult&quot; levels at about 11 years. In the monkey similar phenomena have been observed, but with a time-scale about four times shorter. In both monkey and man these developmental changes manifested by an initial overgrowth of pre- and postsynaptic elements and a subsequent &quot;pruning&quot; to mature levels correspond to a period of physiological and behavioural changes in visual function. This period represents a critical phase in normal development at a time when the risk of the development of amblyopia is at its highest.
6438389	Endotoxemia in intensive care patients: a longitudinal study with the limulus amebocyte lysate test.	In patients with severe underlying disease and in polytraumatized patients, clinical signs of septicemia caused by infections with gram-negative bacteria are observed postoperatively with increasing frequency. Using a photometric LAL test, a longitudinal assessment of LAL reactivity on 41 intensive care patients was performed. Postoperatively, all patients developed a septicemia of different severity with body temperatures greater than 38.5 degrees C. Dividing the individual disease course, related to body temperatures, into three phases (A-C) it was found that independent of the severity of septicemia, the majority of patients (38/41) yielded a positive LAL reactivity. In phase B (body temperature greater than 38.5 degrees C) more plasma samples contained LAL-reactive material than in phase A and C (body temperature less than 38.5 degrees C). A decline of fever (phase B to C) correlated significantly (P less than 0.05) with the change from positive to negative LAL reactivity. In patients with high leukocyte counts (15-50 X 10(9)/l) a positive LAL reactivity was found more frequently. The majority of patients (21/27) who survived were transferred with negative LAL reactivity to the general wards. The results suggest that single determinations of LAL reactivity are of limited clinical validity. Using the individual profile of LAL reactivity gained through a longitudinal assessment, data upon the development of the disease course can be obtained.
6452788	Rigid spine syndrome: histological examinations of male and female cases.	Histological findings in the limb-muscle of two new cases of Rigid Spine Syndrome are described. The first male case exhibited a disproportion in fiber type with predominance of the type II fibers with a slight increase of large fibers. Some of the type I fibers were slightly atrophic. No other consistent abnormalities could be seen, excepted thickness of vessel basal lamina. The second female case had a relatively distinct muscular pattern. Necrotizing phenomenon were mild without fibrosis. Type I predominance were obvious. Atrophic and hypertrophic fibers could be seen in both types populations, with a relatively higher rate in type II. These two additional cases and those of the literature showed varied non specific histology, without any histo-chemical nor ultrastructural characteristic pattern.
6462250	Chiral selection in poly(C)-directed synthesis of oligo(G).	Theories of the origin of optical asymmetry in living systems place fundamental importance on the amplification of optical asymmetry by an autocatalytic process. The replication of a polynucleotide is one obvious choice for such an autocatalytic growth mechanism. If an optically homogeneous polynucleotide could replicate by directing the polymerization of monomers of the same handedness, while excluding monomers of the opposite handedness, its chiral descendants would come to dominate what was once an achiral environment. Recently, two highly efficient template-directed reaction systems have been developed for the oligomerization of activated guanosine mononucleotides (Fig. 1) on a poly(C) template. The synthesis of L-guanosine 5'-mononucleotide makes it possible to study chiral selection in these systems. We report here that poly(C)-directed oligomerization of activated guanosine mononucleotides proceeds readily if the monomers are of the same optical handedness as the template, and is indeed far less efficient if the monomers are of the opposite handedness. However, in template-directed reactions with a racemic mixture, monomers of the opposite handedness to the template are incorporated as chain terminators at the 2'(3') end of the products. This inhibition raises an important problem for many theories of the origin of life.
6476216	Selection of attenuated dengue 4 viruses by serial passage in primary kidney cells. V. Human response to immunization with a candidate vaccine prepared in fetal rhesus lung cells.	A dengue 4 (strain H241, PDK35-TD3 FRhL p3) vaccine attenuated by passage in primary dog kidney cells followed by passage and final vaccine preparation in DBS-FRhL-2 cells was tested in five yellow fever-immune volunteers. Only two volunteers seroconverted by producing hemagglutination-inhibiting and neutralizing antibodies. Mild illness, compatible with dengue infection was found only in the individuals who later developed antibodies. Both volunteers developed a rash by the 8th day following vaccination, coinciding with a slight elevation in temperature and leukopenia. Additionally, several serum enzymes were elevated during the observation period. Dengue 4 virus was isolated from the blood of the two infected volunteers starting as early as day 5 post vaccination. During the viremic period, which lasted 5 days, phenotypically-changed virus was recovered, indicating genetic instability of the vaccine virus. The clinical disease and immune response in the two infected individuals was probably related to replication of the variant virus. Further testing of this vaccine in its present form is not indicated.
6478383	Fathers in the newer family forms: male or female?	Current social trends have produced significant changes in the family system, with the emergence of newer family forms -- single parent and homosexual families. The author used the example of a six year old boy in a female homosexual family to discuss the theories of sex role development. The literature on father-absence and the converging roles of father and mother, men and women, were reviewed with suggestions that women may function as fathers in the newer family forms. Longitudinal studies of children in these newer family forms are needed to define the implications of these social changes for personality development theories and mental health care delivery.
6486489	Antagonism of diazepam by aminophylline in healthy volunteers.	Six healthy volunteers participated in a randomized, double-blind cross-over study of the effects of intravenous aminophylline on diazepam-induced sedation. Each subject participated in two phases and in each phase received either diazepam (15 mg intravenously) followed by placebo or diazepam followed by aminophylline (2 mg/kg intravenously). Critical flicker fusion times and reaction times were measured sequentially as indices of vigilance. Subjects also assessed their own vigilance on a visual analogue scale. Aminophylline given after diazepam significantly improved vigilance as measured by the visual analogue scale from 60 to 150 min after administration of diazepam, while total reaction time was significantly improved at 90, 210, and 270 min. There was no significant correlation between theophylline plasma levels and its effects on vigilance.
6492386	Intraarterial infusion of 4'-O-tetrahydropyranyl-adriamycin for head and neck tumors.	THP-adriamycin was administered in a dose of 5 to 20 mg, 3 times a week, and the results showed 4 cases of CR, 5 cases of PR, 3 cases of MR and 2 cases of NC with the accumulated total dose of less than 100 mg. Histological effects were slight in a total dose of less than 50 mg, while the effects appeared in a total dose of 60 to 70 mg and further effects were obtained after about 1 week of the termination of the therapy. Leukopenia occurred in 6 of 14 cases. The side effects of THP-adriamycin were milder than those of ADM.
6503244	Acquisition of spoken and signed English by profoundly deaf children.	A sample of 327 profoundly deaf children from oral/aural (OA) and total communication (TC) programs across the country was tested on the Grammatical Analysis of Elicited Language--Simple Sentence Level (GAEL-S), which measures production of selected English language structures. Results were analyzed separately for four different response modes: the oral productions of OA children, the oral productions of TC children, the manual productions of TC children, and the combined productions of TC children. Percentage correct scores for the oral productions of TC children were substantially below scores for their manual productions and below the scores of OA children in all grammatical categories sampled on the GAEL-S. The percentage correct scores of OA children were significantly higher than the manual and combined production scores of TC children in more than 50% of the grammatical categories. The manual scores of TC children significantly exceeded the scores of OA children in less than 20% of the categories. The gap between oral and manual production of the children in total communication programs indicates that spoken English did not develop simultaneously with manually coded English and that these children educated in programs using manually coded English did not develop competence with early developing English syntax at a rate faster than those not using signs.
6504528	Fixational eye movements and autokinesis in amblyopes.	Eye movements were recorded from amblyopic and non-amblyopic eyes during monocular viewing of a small target on either a patterned or a patternless background. A continuous measure of autokinesis was also obtained. The variance in eye position was greater in amblyopic eyes than in non-amblyopic eyes. The presence of a patterned background did not reduce the variance in eye position of amblyopic eyes. Autokinesis was greater in amblyopic eyes, but was not correlated with the eye movements. A patterned background significantly reduced the magnitude of autokinesis in amblyopic eyes. These results provide support for the hypothesis that a patterned background improves the accuracy of visual direction by reducing spurious extraretinal signals.
6514097	Effects of chronic exposure to alcohol on the developing brain.	In this investigation using Golgi techniques, the relative effects of chronic alcohol exposure and malnutrition were studied in the developing cerebral cortex of the rat. Female Sprague-Dawley albino rats were placed on one of three dietary regimens for an eight-week conditioning period: an ethanol-containing (E) liquid diet, a liquid control (LC) diet isocaloric with the E diet, and a rat chow (CH) diet. The E and LC groups were pair-fed and all diets were continued through pregnancy and lactation. In comparison to the control groups, the E group showed a significant reduction in body and brain weight with a decrease in cerebral cortical width, density of basal, oblique, and terminal spines, and extent of oblique dendrites in layer IIIb somesthetic cortical pyramidal neurons. These findings indicate that changes in the cerebral cortex in the developing rat chronically exposed to alcohol cannot be explained by malnutrition alone.
6519163	Pharmacokinetics of propranolol during pregnancy.	Propranolol, a beta-adrenoceptor blocking drug, was administered to 6 healthy pregnant volunteers between 32 and 36 weeks gestation and when at least 6 weeks postpartum. On both occasions, subjects were given propranolol 120 mg orally or 10 mg intravenously in randomised order with a minimum washout period of 1 week. Propranolol was assayed in plasma by gas-liquid chromatography with electron-capture detection and the pharmacokinetic parameters were investigated. There were no significant alterations in elimination half-life, clearance or apparent volume of distribution per kilogram antenatally compared with postnatally: bioavailability was also unchanged. It is concluded that the disposition of propranolol is not altered during pregnancy.
6530932	Estimating patient dielectric losses in NMR imagers.	Dielectric losses in the patient may impair radiofrequency receiver coil sensitivity, and transmitter coil efficiency, in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imagers. The frequency dependence of this loss mechanism is derived. Patient losses in a solenoidal head coil used for imaging heads were simulated by a cylindrical saline phantom. The frequency dependence of the loss introduced by the phantom can indicate whether dielectric losses in the patient will be significant compared to eddy current losses. The detuning caused by the phantom is used to calculate an upper limit for the distributed stray capacitance between coil and patient. Given the approximate conductivity of the patient, an upper limit for the dielectric loss can be estimated. Some methods of reducing patient dielectric losses are suggested.
6537932	Pesticides and other chemical residues in Dutch total diet samples (June 1976-July 1978).	Over a period of 2 yr 126 different food items of a market basket of 16-18-yr old males were purchased every 2 months. The foodstuffs were prepared as for eating, and were combined in 12 commodity groups. Twelves samples of each food group were homogenized and analysed for 78 different chemicals, including pesticides, PCBs, bromine, heavy metals, arsenic and selenium. Thirty-four of these chemicals were detected in the various samples and the means and ranges of residue concentrations found in each food group are reported. Most chemicals were found in concentrations below the Dutch residue tolerance limits, the two exceptions were omethoate and carbendazim. Using the concentrations found in the total diet samples the daily intakes of the various chemicals were calculated. The daily intake figures were evaluated with the aid of the Acceptable Daily Intakes (ADI) recommended by FAO/WHO. For practically all chemicals examined the mean and the maximum intakes were well below the ADI.
6539502	Intragastric self-infusion of ethanol by ethanol-preferring and -nonpreferring lines of rats.	An ethanol-preferring line of rats, developed by selective breeding, consumed as much as 9.4 +/- 1.7 grams of ethanol per kilogram of body weight per day through intragastric self-infusions, yielding blood ethanol concentrations of 92 to 415 milligrams per 100 milliliters. By contrast, the ethanol- nonpreferring line self-administered only 0.7 +/- 0.2 gram per kilogram per day. These findings indicate that the reinforcing effect of ethanol is postabsorptive and is not mediated by the drug's smell or taste. Hence the ethanol-preferring line of rats may be suitable animal model of alcoholism.
6542255	The role of congeners in the effects of different alcoholic beverages.	Five different alcoholic beverages were tested in rats to determine if congener content contributed to the hypothermia or motor impairment produced by the beverages. Solutions of cognac, scotch, tequila, vodka, and commercially supplied ethanol were diluted with physiological saline to form solutions containing 16% w/v ethanol, as verified by gas chromatographic analysis. All beverages were administered in doses containing 0 (saline), 1.6, 3.2, 4.8, or 6.4 g/kg ethanol (gastric intubation) in test sessions separated by 7 days (repeated measures design, N = 8 rats per group). Measurements of rectal temperature and motor impairment (rotarod performance) made at 0, 60, and 120 minutes postinjection revealed no noteworthy differences in either measure at 60 or 120 minutes postinjection at any of the 4 doses tested. Thus, no evidence for a contribution of congeners to beverage effects was observed.
6565301	The effect of transition modules on new graduate adaptation.	The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of educational modules to aid new graduate nurses in adapting to the work environment. An experimental group of new graduates (n = 63) and their controls (n = 58) from eight hospitals were given Corwin's Role Conception Scale, Seeman's Powerlessness Scale, Benner's Clinical Skills Inventory, and Munson's Job Satisfaction Index to measure adaptation at entry to work and 6 months later. The effects of the educational modules were determined by the adaptation measures, cognitive tests, and a Nursing Service Questionnaire. After 6 months in the work setting, the experimental group had less discrepancy between their desired and existing level of clinical skill (p less than .05) and a greater orientation to bureaucratic expectations than controls (p less than .01), as well as an increase in job satisfaction (p less than .05) and a decrease in role deprivation (p less than .05). In addition, the impact on turnover saved hospitals an average of $3,178 for every 10 new graduates they hired.
6602647	Neonatal lupus erythematosus: five new cases with HLA typing.	In two of five infants with neonatal lupus erythematosus the signs of the disease did not appear until the children had been exposed to direct sunlight. This suggests that an environmental factor may be required for the development of the disease in some patients. Three of the five patients, together with their mothers, had the HLA (histocompatibility) antigens A1 and B8, which supports the concept that individuals may be genetically susceptible to lupus erythematosus.
6606303	Immunomodulation by small molecular weight bacterial products.	Microbial products are known immunomodulators. Endotoxins derived from gram negative bacteria both enhance and suppress a wide variety of immune responses in vivo and in vitro, depending upon dose, concentration, form, and time of exposure. Studies in this laboratory have shown that a small molecular weight polysaccharide derivative from endotoxin has strong immunomodulatory effects, both in vivo and in vitro, similar to intact LPS. Injection of PS into mice or addition to normal mouse spleen cell cultures results in enhanced responses similar to that observed with LPS as well as with lipoteichoic acid derived from gram positive bacteria. The immunomodulatory activity, both in vivo and in vitro, was related to development of soluble serum factors, most likely interleukins. Similar soluble mediators were observed in vivo since post endotoxin or post LTA serum, when added in small quantities to normal mouse spleen cell cultures, mediated enhanced antibody responses. Normal spleen cell cultures exposed to these materials also released soluble mediators into the supernatants which enhanced the antibody response of normal spleen cell cultures. These observations support the view that similar to larger molecular weight cell wall components, small molecular weight substances such as polysaccharide derivatives, despite lack of toxicity share related mechanisms of enhancing immune responses.
6614807	[Right endoventricular biopsy using the femoral percutaneous approach: a simple procedure, harmless, reliable and repetitive. Modification of the Konno technic]	The technique of right endoventricular biopsy by femoral percutaneous path is described based on 300 incident-free samples. Ability to multiply and then repeat sampling supports a method which can be performed at the same time as examination of the conduction channels. This is of diagnostic, prognostic, therapeutic and research interest.
6616273	Unit-activity in the central amygdalar nucleus of rats in response to immobilization--stress.	Multiple-unit activity in the central nucleus of the amygdala of rats was measured during immobilization and during presentations of a white-noise stimulus that had been paired with the restraint treatment. Results showed that some units responded with an increase, others with a decrease in firing rate during immobilization. Several units also showed &quot;conditioned&quot; rate changes to the auditory stimulus. A behavioral assessment of the presumed conditioned aversive properties of the stimulus showed that the rats which had experienced the pairing of restraint and the noise stimulus escaped faster when presented with the stimulus than the unpaired controls. It is suggested that the central amygdala might be part of a system in which stressful inputs influence autonomic functions.
6617933	Morphological characteristics and protein profile of isolated human decidual cells.	Isolated decidual cells were prepared from human decidual tissue obtained during early pregnancy by digesting the tissue fragments with 0.1% collagenase solution. Morphological studies of the cells were carried out using morphometric and flow cytometric analysis while the protein profile was analysed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and gel filtration column chromatography. An average of 90% cell viability was achieved and the results showed that decidual cells constitute up to 70% of cell number and 89% of cell area of the isolated decidual cell suspension. The presence of serum proteins in uterine tissue extracts is due to blood contamination. However, the similarities of the non-serum protein profiles in tissue and cellular extracts validates previous studies performed in uterine fluids and tissue extracts. Finally, at least one unique uterine protein appeared to be a sub-unit of a larger molecule.
6627208	Lymphomas or leukemia presenting as ovarian tumors. An analysis of 42 cases.	Forty cases of ovarian lymphoma and two of extramedullary leukemia were examined with emphasis on histologic types correlated with age, modes of presentation, operative findings, including frequency of bilaterality and omental spread, clinical course following therapy, and problems in differential diagnosis. Although most cases were referred with diagnoses other than lymphoma (granulosa cell tumor or dysgerminoma, occasionally anaplastic tumor, Krukenberg tumor, or metastatic breast carcinoma), utilization of sections cut at 4 mu and stained with hematoxylin and eosin, or sections stained by the methyl green pyronine (MGP), naphthol-ASD esterase (NASD) or periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) methods helped bring out the lymphoid or hematopoietic nature of the cells. Sixteen patients were under 20 years of age. They had small noncleaved cell lymphoma (undifferentiated Burkitt's and non-Burkitt's, 10 cases), diffuse immunoblastic large cell lymphoma (4 cases), or acute granulocytic leukemia (2 cases). Twenty-six patients were 29 to 74 years of age and had diffuse large cell lymphoma (10 cases), diffuse immunoblastic large cell lymphoma (9 cases), follicular (nodular) lymphoma (6 cases) or small noncleaved cell lymphoma (1 case). Pain with an abdominal or pelvic mass was the most common presentation. Nine tumors were discovered during investigation of other gynecologic complaints. At laparotomy, the tumors in 55% of cases involved both ovaries, and in 64% also involved extragonadal sites (usually omentum, fallopian tubes, or lymph nodes). Seventeen patients had tumor affecting one ovary, seven of these without any evidence of extragonadal spread. Forty-two percent (15) of 37 patients with follow-up were alive after 2 years. Only nine patients survived more than 5 years; two subsequently died of lymphoma. Favorable prognostic features included: (1) FIGO stage IA; (2) unilateral ovarian involvement; (3) focal involvement of one ovary; and (4) follicular (nodular) lymphoma.
6634968	A new, reliable lower-body nociception device for unrestrained animals yields data comparable to a new portable version of the face-rub test.	A novel lower body heating device is described for use in lower body analgesiometry with freely-moving, small animals. It consists of a resistor in contact with a hindlimb. The defensive biting response to heat shows reliable dose-response effects with morphine which compare well with our similar upper body device (Rosenfeld et al. 1978). Issues dealing with upper versus lower body nociception effects may be tested with the new device set described.
6647609	The abductor digiti minimi muscle flap: a salvage technique for palmar wrist pain.	In a series of 12 patients incapacitated by persistent or recurrent pain in the palmar aspect of the hand and wrist, successful rehabilitation was aided by employing an abductor digit minimi muscle flap. It is emphasized that this muscle flap was utilized as an adjunct to microsurgical internal neurolysis and neuroma resection. Eleven of the 12 patients (92 percent) achieved good to excellent results in terms of relief of pain, plus either return to their previous job or vocational rehabilitation. The &quot;salvage&quot; nature, donor-site morbidity, and technical demands of the procedure are emphasized.
6655152	Reliability and validity of the Direct Observation Form of the Child Behavior Checklist.	This article reports reliability and validity data for the Direct Observation Form (DOF) of the Child Behavior Checklist. Observational data were collected on two samples of boys aged 6-11 in classroom settings. Interobserver agreement was high: r = .92 for behavior problem score and r = .83 for on-task score. Generalizability, as measured by the one-way intraclass correlation, was .86 and .71 for behavior problem score and on-task score, respectively. In terms of validity, DOF scores correlated significantly and in the expected directions with teacher-reported problem behavior, school performance, and adaptive functioning. In addition, boys who had been referred by their teachers due to problem behavior obtained significantly higher behavior problem scores and significantly lower on-task scores than a matched sample of normal boys observed in the same classrooms.
6667496	Sorting out in heterotypic cell aggregates is regulated by differences in the cell surface charge.	Random aggregates of heterotypic cells derived from two different embryonic tissues sort out into homotypic zones, one enclosing the other. The specification of the enclosed or enclosing position is based on a tissue hierarchy. Cells differ in their net negative charge as indicated by their different isoelectric points (pI). The cells of higher pI enclose the cells of lower pI. Cell pI is lowered by treatment with heparin. Cells with experimentally altered pI also sort out, and their position is specified by the differences in their pI. It is suggested that the cell surface ionogenic groups determine the free surface energy which controls the positioning of cells in a mixed aggregate.
6668405	[Hyperextension of the fetal head associated with hyperextension of the dorso-lumbar spine. Apropos of a case diagnosed in utero]	The authors report a case where hypertonicity resulted in extension of the cerebral spine in a fetus. They think that they are reporting a case of congenital hyperextension of the lumbar spine, which is otherwise called &quot;the newborn stiff-man syndrome&quot;. The outlook for this child is good in spite of the gross abnormality that is revealed on the X-rays of the fetus. Caesarean section is therefore indicated.
6672035	Capillary gas chromatography of fatty acid methyl esters from human milk lipid subclasses.	The fatty acid (FA) composition of the human milk lipid subclasses sphingomyelin, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine and cholesterol esters (CE) were analysed by capillary gas chromatography (GC) on wall-coated open-tubular glass columns. Compared with GC on packed columns, capillary GC was found to be ten times more sensitive (0.1 microgram of each individual FA methyl ester could be quantified), and the time needed for the analysis could be reduced by a factor of five. The reproducibility of the analysis was good relative standard deviation (4-7%) and comparable to that obtained by packed column GC.
6679937	DNA breaks induced by micromolar concentrations of dimethylnitrosamine in liver primary cell cultures from untreated and phenobarbital treated rats.	Direct genotoxic effects of the alkylating agent dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) have been difficult to detect in several short-term tests. We simplified our method to detect DNA breaks induced by DMN in rat liver primary cell cultures, and increased its sensitivity about 150 times by changing the conditions of ultracentrifugation and exposure to DMN. Additionally we increased 4 times the sensitivity of the improved assay by isolating hepatocytes from rats treated with phenobarbital (PB). Treatment for 24 h with 60 microM and 13.5 microM DMN of hepatocytes isolated from untreated and PB-treated rats, respectively, decreased the molecular weight of DNA by 50%. After 24 h exposure to 13.5 microM [14C]DMN, hepatocytes from PB-treated rats incorporated 3 times more radioactivity into trichloroacetic acid precipitable material than hepatocytes from untreated rats. Also PB-treatment increased remarkably cytotoxic effects of DMN while it did not modify the cytotoxicity nor the genotoxicity of the direct-acting alkylating agent N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine. These results show that DMN is more genotoxic for hepatocytes from PB-treated rats, and suggest that the enhanced genotoxicity is probably due to an augmented metabolism of DMN by these cultures. Our improved assay of DNA breaks as an indicator of DMN genotoxicity is now as sensitive but faster to perform than hepatocyte-mediated mutagenesis. It could be used to explore genotoxic effects of other alkylating agents and the action of microsomal enzyme modifiers on genotoxicity.
6689969	An investigation into how the geometry of an end-to-side arterial anastomosis affects its function.	The effects of altering the geometry of an end-to-side junction were investigated in a hydraulic model. The dimensions of the tubes, pressures and flow rate and the frequency of pulsation were calculated by dimensional analysis, to produce a model which simulated pulsatile flow in small arteries. The ratio between the impedance of the 'bypass' and the impedance downstream from the junction was greater than unity when the two tubes forming the junction were of unequal diameter. No increase in downstream impedance was measured when the angle of junction was increased from 45 degrees to 135 degrees. Cine photographs of streamlines at the junction showed that flow passed smoothly through the junction irrespective of angle and that perturbations occurred only during that part of the cycle when flow was reversed. The results indicate that the angle at which a junction is made affects flow. The effect is small and is only seen when the ratio of diameters of the tubes is unity. The ratio of the diameters of the two tubes which make up the junction has the greatest effect on flow through the junction.
6692981	The formation of supernumerary structures after grafting anterior quail wing bud mesoderm of various ages into chick wing buds.	Wedges of anterior quail mesoderm grafted into posterior slits in the wing buds of chick embryo hosts result in the formation of rods and nodules of supernumerary cartilage in a high percentage of cases. Identifiable digits do not form unless the ectoderm is allowed to remain on the grafts. Control experiments have shown that wedges of anterior or posterior wing mesoderm placed into homologous locations of host wing buds produce few or no supernumerary skeletal structures. Anterior-to-posterior grafts of stage 17 mesoderm evoke a 71.4% incidence of supernumerary cartilage. This percentage increases to 100% with stage 22 donor mesoderm. The percentage of supernumerary structures formed declines markedly with donor mesoderm of stages 24-30. By stages 35-36, only 10% of the grafts result in the formation of supernumerary structures. The period of decline coincides with the onset of overt cytodifferentiation within the donor mesoderm.
6695253	An unusual case of uterine rupture. A case report.	An unusual case of uterine rupture in a primigravida, in which the left leg of the infant ruptured through the posterior fundal part of the uterus, is presented. No definitive predisposing cause could be found. Some of the clinical signs and symptoms resembled those of abruptio placentae. Recording of internal uterine pressure revealed increased basal tone and frequent small contractions, as are often seen with abruptio placentae. This could possibly have been due to prostaglandin release from the injured decidua.
6696144	Regulation of bone repletion in rats subjected to varying low-calcium stress.	Weanling Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to varying degrees of low-Ca dietary stress (depletion) showed graded increases in the rate of endosteal bone formation when normal dietary Ca was restored (repletion). There was a strong positive correlation between the rate of bone resorption in depletion and the rate of bone formation attained after 1 wk of repletion. However, bone formation declined rapidly within the first 4 wk of repletion, despite the persistence of a substantial endosteal bone volume deficit. Furthermore the medullary area (indicative of bone volume) did not by itself determine the bone formation rate. Bone volume in test groups was restored to control levels after 6 mo of repletion, and this result could be predicted by a kinetic analysis. Thus, although very high rates of formation in early repletion decline rapidly, smaller increments relative to controls must be sustained for long periods. Our data indicate that increased formation rats at all stages of repletion are a consequence of elevations in both osteoblast number and osteoblast activity.
6699225	Ocular pathogenesis of Newcastle disease virus in rabbits and monkeys.	Studies on the ocular pathogenesis of Newcastle disease virus (NDV) in rabbits and monkeys revealed that conjunctivitis can only be produced by the virus when conjunctival epithelium is traumatized; multiple instillations of large doses of virus over the intact conjunctiva failed to do so. The presence of serum HI antibodies showed no correlation with the clinical form of the disease in rabbits. However, in monkeys, the disease showed a uniform pattern of immune response irrespective of the strain of the virus. Monkeys may be useful for further studies.
6700100	The changing pattern of low birth weight in the United States--1970 to 1980.	Analysis of US Natality Statistics using a bivariate (birth weight-gestational age) approach shows that trends among term-low-birth-weight infants (less than or equal to 2,500 g; greater than or equal to 37 weeks, term low birth weight) and preterm-low-birth-weight infants (less than or equal to 2,500 g; less than 37 weeks, preterm low birth weight) have different patterns over time and by race. Between 1970 and 1980 the incidence of preterm low birth weight for all races declined 7.1%, while the term-low-birth-weight incidence declined almost three times as much (20.9%). The incidence of preterm low birth weight among white infants, during the same period, declined 9.0% with the black preterm-low-birth-weight rate declining by 5.8%. The term-low-birth-weight incidence, however, was 24.6% lower among whites and 14.9% lower among black term-low-birth-weight infants for the same period. The reduction in the overall low-birth-weight incidence for both populations is principally caused by reduction in the incidence of term-low-birth-weight infants. Term- and preterm-low-birth-weight infants reflect different etiologic insults and require different intervention strategies for prevention.
6710589	Immunological characteristics and clinical significance of anti-H in the Ah phenotype.	A red cell survival study with 51Chromium-labeled A1 cells was performed in a patient with the Ah phenotype whose serum contained IgM anti-H but not anti-A1. A1 cells were agglutinated weakly at 37 degrees C in the crossmatch, but not in the antiglobulin test. One hour after the survival study was begun, 67 percent of injected cells had been destroyed, and only 20 percent of the labeled cells remained after 24 hours. This study suggests that Ah individuals should be transfused only with Ah or Oh red cells.
6712379	Recurrent rhabdomyolysis as a manifestation of alcoholic myopathy. Report of a case.	A 38-year-old man experienced six severe episodes of rhabdomyolysis and two episodes of pharyngeal muscle weakness superimposed on chronic alcoholic myopathy and complicated by cardiomyopathy. A muscle biopsy specimen demonstrated sharply reduced levels of electrolytes despite normal serum values; presumably, these deficiencies were related to the pathogenesis of the recurrent rhabdomyolysis.
6715291	Multiple personality disorder in a hospital setting.	Multiple personality disorder (MPD) should be considered in cases where there have been multiple diagnoses, failure of conventional treatments, a mixture of psychiatric and somatic symptoms, and/or extremely rapid shifts in symptoms and level of function. Proper diagnosis and treatment often leads to a significant amelioration in symptoms and increase in level of function for a patient previously refractory to treatment.
6719502	Teratogenicity of TCDD and the congener 3,3',4,4'-tetrachloroazoxybenzene in sensitive and nonsensitive mouse strains after reciprocal blastocyst transfer.	The teratogenic sensitivity to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and its congeners is straindependent in the mouse. Reciprocal blastocyst transfer was performed between sensitive (NMRI) and nonsensitive (DBA) strains to show if there is a direct effect on embryonic tissues or if damage is secondary to maternal effects. Treatment with TCDD (30 micrograms/kg body weight) and 3,3',4,4'-tetrachloroazoxy-benzene (TCAOB)(8 mg/kg) on day 12 caused cleft palate in 75-100% of all NMRI fetuses, irrespective of whether they had remained in their own (NMRI) dams or as aliens in DBA dams. Only 1 out of 25 alien NMRI fetuses in DBA dams did not develop cleft palate. Under the same conditions, none of the 24 DBA fetuses in NMRI dams had cleft palate, although 89% of their NMRI littermates were affected. Also, no DBA fetuses having developed in their own dams had cleft palate.
6722672	Delayed hemorrhage following conservative surgery for tubal ectopic pregnancy: prevention and early detection.	There is growing acceptance of conservative surgery for ectopic (tubal) pregnancy. An uncommon, yet potentially fatal, complication is delayed hemorrhage due to persistence of gestational tissue. An illustrative case is presented. Routine postoperative determination of serum human chorionic gonadotropin levels and the use of frozen sections when a partial salpingectomy is carried out are recommended to identify and prevent this condition.
6725447	[Tumors of the brachial plexus. Apropos of 2 cases]	Authors point out two observations of tumors of brachial plexus. With these two cases and review of the literature, they show that therapeutic problems depend to the histopathological aspect of tumor.
6732859	Glucose metabolism of oxidatively stressed human red blood cells incubated in plasma or medium containing physiologic concentrations of lactate, pyruvate and ascorbate.	Red cells suspended in either defined medium or buffered plasma were oxidatively stressed by incubation in the presence of 1,4-naphthoquinone-2-sulfonate at concentrations which caused less than 50% methemoglobin accumulation, stimulation of the hexose monophosphate shunt to less than 15% of capacity, and about a 30% increase in flux through glycolysis. Normal plasma concentrations of lactate and pyruvate in either defined medium or buffered plasma allowed increased contribution of reducing equivalents from glycolysis in response to oxidative stress. Increased utilization of reducing equivalents by the red cell was observed as increased accumulation of pyruvate, whereas accumulation of lactate represented storage of reducing equivalents. Exogenous lactate or pyruvate did not serve as a net electron source or sink since the total content in red cell suspensions of both lactate and pyruvate was increased during exposure to oxidative stress. If exogenous lactate had been used as a net source of reducing equivalents, the lactate concentration would have decreased during incubation of red cell suspensions. Plasma ascorbate or other constituents did not alter the qualitative response of glycolysis to oxidative stress (decreased lactate accumulation, increased pyruvate accumulation, and increased total flux through glycolysis), but plasma constituents did raise significantly the dose of oxidant agent required to elicit a given quantitative response. At levels of oxidative stress likely to be encountered in vivo, glycolysis and the hexose monophosphate shunt may be equal in importance as aerobic/antioxidant pathways.
6742213	Rhythmic variations in R-R interval during sleep and wakefulness in puppies and dogs.	We studied the short-term oscillations in the R-R interval in five puppies at 4 wk of age and five adult dogs during sleep and wakefulness. The R-R interval was measured using an R-R preprocessor, and respiration was recorded using barometric plethysmography. Puppies showed much smaller fluctuations in the R-R interval (SD between 6 and 40 ms) than adult dogs (SD between 124 and 367 ms) in both rapid eye movement (REM) and quiet sleep. Spectral analysis demonstrated that these oscillations were primarily of low frequencies, and the contribution of respiratory sinus arrythmia (RSA) to total power was low. In contrast, in adult dogs during sleep, the spectral distributions were peaked in frequency bands corresponding to mean respiratory rate, and the percent contribution of low frequencies to power was small. Furthermore, the mean R-R interval was considerably larger during expiration than during inspiration in adult dogs (showing 20-140% increase), but not in puppies (showing only -0.4 to 4.4% increase). We conclude that 1) the mechanisms responsible for RSA mature postnatally in the dog; 2) the magnitude of RSA depends on the state of consciousness in the adult dog, being greater in sleep than during wakefulness; and 3) low-frequency oscillations, not related to breathing and independent of sleep state, characterize the variations in the R-R interval in early life but are insignificant in the adult dog.
6747813	Hypnotic susceptibility and performance on various attention-specific cognitive tasks.	We conducted two experiments to investigate cognitive performance as related to level of hypnotic susceptibility. In Experiment 1 time-to-location of a target in a visual search task was assessed. For this task the letter Z was embedded either within straight-form or round-form letters. Results indicated that high-hypnotic-susceptibility subjects (highs) were significantly faster than low-susceptibility-subjects (lows) in locating the embedded letter. Experiment 2 investigated performance on single- and double-digit arithmetic (addition) problems as a function of hypnotic susceptibility level. Subjects were presented with arithmetic problems and were asked to complete them within a 60-s time period. Highs completed a significantly greater number of double-digit problems but not single-digit problems within this time frame than did lows. The results of the two experiments are explained in terms of the application of differing strategies or operations by highs and lows in the performance of cognitive tasks.
6753310	Comparison of the activity of some fasciolicides against immature liver fluke in calves.	The anthelmintic activities of nitroxynil, closantel and rafoxanide were tested in cattle against six- and eight-week-old infections of Fasciola hepatica. Administered by subcutaneous injection, nitroxynil and rafoxanide at dose rates of 10 and 3 mg/kg bodyweight respectively were 88.5 and 36.1 per cent effective in eliminating a six-week-old infection of F hepatica and 85.8 and 60.4 per cent effective against an eight-week-old infection. Closantel administered by intramuscular injection at a dose rate of 2.5 mg/kg bodyweight was 60.0 per cent effective against an eight-week-old F hepatica infection.
6754357	Studies of the mutagenic response of Salmonella typhimurium TA98 to size-fractionated air particles: comparison of the fluctuation and plate incorporation tests.	The high-volume Andersen sampler was used to study the mutagenic activity of size-fractionated airborne particles from ambient air in Morgantown, West Virginia. Mutagenicity was studied by the Ames Salmonella assay and the bacterial fluctuation test and was dependent on particle size in both systems, ie, the greatest activity was associated with the smallest particles. Comparison of the two systems was based on identical aliquots of each extract, cells prepared under identical conditions at the same time, and on mutagenic response at a predetermined level of statistical significance (P less than 0.05). The results suggest a slight advantage in sensitivity for the Ames test for the air samples under study.
6762779	[Adiaspiromycosis--a little known lung disease]	Adiaspiromycosis produced by the fungus Emmonsia crescens is a pulmonary disease afflicting primarily small wild mammals. Man, too, may become an accidental link of the saproparatrophic circulation of the agent. Humans are infected--similarly to other mammals--by inhaling the elements of the saprophytic stage of the fungus living for long time periods in the soil substrates. After the infecting cells, aleuriospores, have invaded the host lungs, they are converted into the elements of the parasitic stage--adiaspores. These are surrounded by granulomatous tissue and reach up to 700 microns in diameter. In the circulation of the agent, the infected wild mammals play a role of reservoir hosts harbouring the parasitic stage of the fungus in nature for a relatively long time. In some cases these animals also enable spread of adiaspiromycosis from exoanthropic foci into human habitations. Clinical and experimental studies show that the result of an infection may be--in addition to its liquidation--an asymptomatic form of disease or a disseminated pulmonary process. In addition to as yet insufficiently proved proper action of fungus cells, a reduction in the functional pulmonary parenchyma plays a role in the pathogenesis of the pulmonary forms. An existence of extrapulmonary forms of adiaspiromycosis is not excluded. Serological methods have not been routinely used for diagnosis as yet: immune reaction of the organism has a character of antibody response and delayed hypersensitivity. Cell mediated immunity has not been studied as yet. Treatment of human disease is primarily a surgical one. The fungistatic drugs pimaricin or amphotericin B may be employed, corticosteroids may be indicated in individual cases. The efficacy of modern antifungal substances has not been established as yet.
6763897	Reversible hypertension caused by calcium overloading in a patient with postoperative hypoparathyroidism.	A 37-year-old woman with postoperative hypoparathyroidism had hypertension, and elevated plasma renin activity (PRA) and subsequent hyperaldosteronism during a two-month hypercalcemic period caused by vitamin D and excessive calcium supplements. The hypertension with elevated PRA, however, was resistant to the angiotensin II (AII) analog [Sar1, Ile8] ALL. PRA further increased and plasma aldosterone decreased in response to the [Sar1, Ile8] ALL. When the patient became normocalcemic, normotensive and normoreninemic, calcium gluconate (5 mg calcium/kg/h) was infused for one hour. The calcium infusion reproduced hypercalcemic hypertension mediated by an increase in total peripheral resistance. These observations suggest that the hypertension observed while taking vitamin D and excessive calcium supplements may be caused by a direct effect of calcium on peripheral blood vessels and the renin-angiotensin system may play a negligible role.
6778632	Comparison of four electrolyte instruments using the proposed NCCLS protocol for evaluation of precision and accuracy of automated instruments.	We compared four instruments, [Sequential Multiple Analyzer Computer (SMAC), AutoAnalyzer II (AAII), StatLyte and PVA-4] for the determination of Na, K, Cl and CO2 using the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standard's (NCCLS) protocol (PSEP-1) for evaluation of precision and accuracy of automated instruments. The protocol was applied concurrently to all four instruments. The repeatability results showed SMAC to have the highest precision among-days for K, Cl, and CO2 whereas StatLyte showed the highest precision among-days for Na. The PVA-4 had the best within-run precision for Na and Cl while the AAII and SMAC had the best within-run precision for K and CO2 respectively. Systematic biases among the instruments were small for Na and K. The AAII exhibited a nearly constant bias at all concentrations of Cl relative to the other three instruments. For CO2 the SMAC showed a large proportional bias compared with the other three instruments.
6789360	The stimulus properties of gamma-hydroxybutyrate.	Fourteen rats were trained to discriminate the effects of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) (sodium salt, 200 mg/kg) and saline in a two-lever choice task using a fixed ratio 10 schedule of water reinforcement. Intermediate responding, i.e., responding not fully appropriate for either training condition was observed in tests following morphine, lysergic acid diethylamide, chlordiazepoxide, and the presumed GABA-mimetics muscimol, gamma-butyrolactone, baclofen, and 3-aminopropane sulfonic acid. Naloxone blocked the intermediate results following morphine, but had no effect on GBH-induced stimulus control. The GABA antagonist bicuculline partially blocked GHB, but pizotyline, phentolamine, and butaclamol were without effect. It is concluded that the compound stimulus produced by GHB is most closely associated with GABAergic systems, but that minor opiate and serotonergic components are present as well.
6827836	Group separation and gas chromatography--mass spectrometry of conjugated steroids in plasma.	A method is described for analysis of metabolic profiles of conjugated steroids in plasma. Steroids are extracted by Amberlite XAD-2 or Sep-Pak C18 cartridges at 60 64 C in the presence of triethylamine sulphate and separated into unconjugated neutral and phenolic compounds, glucuronide, monosulphate and disulphate conjugate groups by chromatography on the lipophilic strong anion exchanger triethylaminohydroxypropyl Sephadex LH-20 (TEAP-LH-20). The conjugate moiety is hydrolyzed by brief enzymatic or solvolytic procedures and released steroids are separated into a neutral and a phenolic fraction on TEAP-LH-20. The O-methyloxime and trimethylsilyl ether derivatives of the steroids are analyzed by glass capillary column gas liquid chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry. Examples of the application of the method to analysis of conjugated steroids in plasma from pregnant women are given.
6828548	Haemodynamic responses to dopamine and dobutamine infusions as a function of duration of infusion.	In normal animals, dopamine and dobutamine produce similar haemodynamic effects. However, clinical observations on patients in heart failure suggest that dobutamine produces a more favourable and stable haemodynamic effect. One explanation is that the inotropic action of dopamine is largely an indirect one mediated through noradrenaline release, while that of dobutamine is direct. If this were true, one would predict that the haemodynamic effects of dopamine and dobutamine would be similar over short-term infusions, but that the response to dopamine would be attenuated with time as a result of noradrenaline depletion. Experiments are reported which are consistent with this explanation. 15-min infusions of graded doses of dopamine and dobutamine produced indistinguishable haemodynamic effects in a dog model in which the haemodynamic characteristics of heart failure were produced by a chronic aorta-left atrial shunt: dopamine also produced the expected increase in mesenteric and renal flows with this short-term exposure. With long-term infusions of dopamine (5 h), the specific mesenteric/renal vasodilatation was lost with time, and indices of myocardial contractility also were attenuated with time. In contrast, the haemodynamic actions of dobutamine were well maintained. Both amines lowered total peripheral resistance and ventricular filling pressures over the entire period. These results suggest that the haemodynamic responses to dopamine change with time, and that some of the discrepancies between animal observations (short term) and those in patients (invariably long term) can be explained on this basis rather than on the basis of species differences or underlying pathology. They also suggest that dopamine is a less suitable 'inotropic' drug than dobutamine.
6837689	Uveal findings in patients with cutaneous melanoma.	A study Of the uveas of white patients with known cutaneous melanoma and white control subjects showed that patients with cutaneous melanoma had a significantly higher frequency of iris nevi (101 of 197 patients, 51%) than control subjects (58 of 147 subjects, 39%). The frequency of choroidal nevi was also higher in the group with cutaneous melanoma but the number (eight of 197 patients compared with two of 147 control subjects) involved was too small for statistical significance to be assessed. Patients with cutaneous melanoma, particularly women, had more skin nevi than did control subjects.
6844857	The influence of thiol derivatives on synthesis of thyroid hormones in human thyroid cultured cells.	The experiments were carried out on 26 lots of thyroid cell cultures treated with sodium sulphate, lithium sulphate, lithium carbonate, cystine, cysteine, and methionine, in 2 doses each, in the presence or absence of iodine in the culture medium. The monolayer culture was used in morphologic, cytochemical and cytoenzymatic studies, and the culture medium was used for assay of thyroglobulin and thyroxin. We found that addition of aminoacids with SH or S--S groups to the culture medium causes stimulation of protein synthesis overstrain on the oxydases system at the expense of dehydrogenases. Stimulation of protein synthesis in the thyroid cell cultures under study is not accompanied by a corresponding hormonal secretory activity, the process of hormonal biosynthesis being inhibited as compared to the control culture.
6847333	Depressive mood in male college students. Father-son interactional patterns.	This study was designed to investigate the interrelationship of sets of paternal and adolescent factors in explaining depressive mood in normal male adolescents. Two hundred forty-six male college students and their fathers were administered separate, written questionnaires assessing the personality attributes of both fathers and sons and the socialization practices of the fathers. Results of regression analyses indicated that of three hypothesized models (independent, mediational, interdependent) the mediational model was consistent with the data. Thus, we found that the father's personality attributes and his socialization techniques are related to the son's personality, which, in turn, is related to the son's depressive mood. In addition, certain personality attributes of the son interacted synergistically with those of his father to produce more frequent reports of depressive mood in the son.
6848209	A simulation study of the effects of torso inhomogeneities on electrocardiographic potentials, using realistic heart and torso models.	The effects of torso inhomogeneities on electrocardiographic potentials were investigated via computer stimulation, using a 23-dipole heart model placed within a realistically shaped human torso model. The transfer coefficients relating the individual dipoles to the torso surface potentials, as well as the body surface potential maps, the vectorcardiogram, and the 12-lead electrocardiogram resulting due to normal activation of the heart model, were calculated for each of the following torso conditions: homogeneous, homogeneous + skeletal muscle layer, homogeneous + muscle layer + lungs, and homogeneous + muscle layer + lungs + intraventricular blood masses. The effects of each inhomogeneity were deduced by comparing results before and after its inclusion. For individual dipole transfer coefficients we confirm the validity of the &quot;Brody effect,&quot; whereby the high conductivity blood masses augment radially oriented dipoles and diminish tangentially oriented ones. With regard to the vectorcardiogram , the electrocardiogram, and the body surface potential maps, the major qualitative effects were an augmentation of the head-to-foot component of the vectorcardiogram due to the lungs, and a smoothening of notches in the electrocardiogram (temporal filtering) and of isopotential contours in the body surface potential maps (spatial filtering) with a consequent loss of information, due to the blood masses, muscle layer, and, to a lesser extent, the lungs. Besides the above qualitative effects of the inhomogeneities, there were also large quantitative effects on the surface potentials, namely, magnitude increases due to the blood masses and magnitude decreases due to the muscle layer, that--if unaccounted for--could compromise the inverse solution of these potentials for the cardiac dipole sources.
6848957	A comparison study of parental adaptation following a child's death at home or in the hospital.	Mothers and fathers of 37 deceased pediatric oncology patients were interviewed 3 to 28 months after their child's death. Twenty-four of these families had participated in a formal Home Care Program for dying children, whereas the remaining 13 families had children who died in the hospital. Parental adaptation following the home care experience appeared to be more favorable than following terminal care and death in the hospital. Specifically, the parents who had cared for their terminally ill child at home displayed more positive adjustment patterns as indexed by their perception of how the child's death had affected their marriage, social reorientation, religious beliefs, and views on the meaning of life and death. Ratings given by parents providing home care indicated a significant reduction in guilt during the home care experience which was maintained at 6 and 12 months following the child's death. In contrast, parents who did not provide home care reported intensified feelings of guilt during their child's terminal hospitalization which were unresolved at one year after the child's death. The results are discussed in terms of the practical and emotional benefits that may be derived from a family's voluntary choice of home care for dying children.
6849471	The contribution of hypertension to mortality in the US: 1968, 1977.	The contribution of hypertension to total mortality in the United States in 1968 and 1977 is assessed through multiple cause death rates for all mentions of hypertension and the death certificate prevalence of hypertension. Age-adjusted declines in the hypertension death rates were 32.8 per cent for non-White females, 30.4 per cent for non-White males, 30.3 per cent for White females, and 25.2 per cent for White males. Declines for younger non-Whites were the greatest, about 50 per cent, although their rates were more than twice the White rates in both years. Death certificate prevalence also declined for all four groups with the greatest (16.5 per cent) for non-White males and the least (10.4 per cent) for White males, who only showed declines at older ages. The age trajectory of death certificate prevalence reached a peak at ages 50-69 for non-Whites and ages 60-79 for Whites, with lower prevalence at the most advanced ages. Large declines in the contribution of hypertension to mortality observed in death certificate data are particularly striking in light of the probability that any bias would be toward better detection and reporting over the 10 years.
6851651	Disciform erythrasma.	A case of disciform erythrasma is presented. This unusual manifestation of a common cutaneous infection may mimic other dermatologic disorders, including lichen sclerosus et atrophicus and plaque-type parapsoriasis. The condition is characterized by an atrophic appearing surface, located in nonintertriginous areas. Appropriate diagnostic procedures easily differentiate disciform erythrasma. These include Wood's light examination, potassium hydroxide preparation, and skin scrapings or tissue sections stained with Gram stain, periodic acid-Schiff, Giemsa, or methylene blue.
6863095	Changes in relaxation rate with diaphragmatic fatigue in humans.	Maximum relaxation rate (MRR) and the time constant of relaxation (tau) of transdiaphragmatic pressure (Pdi) was measured in four male subjects and compared with the high-to-low frequency ratio (H/L) of the diaphragmatic electromyogram (EMG) as a predictor of diaphragmatic fatigue. Pdi and inspiratory time-to-total breath duration ratios (TI/TT) were varied, and TT and tidal volume were held constant; inspiratory resistances were used to increase Pdi. Studies were performed at various tension-time indices (TTdi = Pdi/Pdimax X TI/TT). Base-line MRR/Pdi was 0.0100 +/- 0.0004 (SE) ms-1, and baseline tau was 53.2 +/- 3.2 ms. At TTdi greater than 0.20, MRR and H/L decreased and tau increased, with maximum changes at the highest TTdi. At TTdi less than 0.20, there was no change in H/L, MRR, or tau. The time course of changes in H/L correlated with those of MRR and tau under fatiguing conditions. In this experimental setting, change in relaxation rate was as useful a predictor of diaphragmatic fatigue as fall in H/L of the diaphragmatic EMG.
6864903	Xanthine calculi in the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome.	Urinary tract calculi composed primarily of xanthine are rare in adults and children. However, there is risk of xanthine calculi formation in children with hereditary xanthinuria and children on xanthine oxidase inhibitor therapy for hyperuricemia. We describe the clinical presentation and management of 2 children with the Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (a congenital disorder of purine metabolism) and xanthine calculi. Little information has been available to direct the urologic management of such patients. We have based a plan for management upon our clinical experience with these children, as well as upon in vitro dissolution studies of the calculi. We have had some clinical success using an alternating acid/base dissolution therapy developed in the laboratory.
6874666	Structural organization of the tissue-specific middle repetitive sequence of the mouse genome.	The structural genes closely linked to the particular middle repetitive sequence (MRS) expressed in liver nuclei were cloned from the mouse genomic library. From one-fourth of 3,200 MRS-containing clones, 21 clones were obtained as mRNA coding sequence-linked MRS clones. From examination of the structural organization and specificity of expression of the MRS and the mRNA coding sequence, it was concluded that expressions of the MRS and the structural genes closely linked to the MRS are independently regulated.
6881846	Congenital laryngeal atresia. Histopathologic study of two cases.	Two specimens of laryngeal atresia were studied. In the first case stenosis was hard due to noncanalization of the anterior cricoid cartilage. In the second case there was a soft stenosis from limited canalization of the endoluminal soft tissue. Additionally, the first case had a posterior cleft with a persistent pharyngotracheal duct. The stenotic soft-tissue elements in both cases contained striated muscle fibers that interdigitated across the midline. The mucosa on the inferior surface of the hard stenosis was grossly thickened and contained large mucous glands. The embryologic significance of these anomalies is discussed. Presumably these cases represent anomalies caused by different embryologic events.
6884706	No increase of biliary permeability in ethinylestradiol-treated rats.	Ethinylestradiol, administered to male Wistar rats for 5 days (5 mg/kg X day), decreased bile flow in anesthetized animals and in isolated perfused livers. The bile salt secretion rate was diminished. The bile-to-perfusate ratios of [14C]sucrose and [14C]inulin increased significantly, but this could be attributed to the decline of bile flow as indicated by almost identical clearance rates. Theorectical analysis according to Forker and Wheeler yielded diffusion permeability coefficients (K) for sucrose and inulin of 0.243 and 0.037 in controls and 0.273 and 0.038 in ethinylestradiol-treated rats. In contrast, 9 h of alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate treatment (250 mg/kg) caused cholestasis with heavily decreased bile salt secretion rates. Here, K-values calculated for sucrose and inulin were 0.807 and 0.175. These findings suggest that altered permeability of the paracellular pathway is the cause for alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate-induced cholestasis, but not the primary event in ethinylestradiol-induced cholestasis.
6887977	Reentrant tachycardia associated with atrial synchronous pacing. Report of a case with intact ventriculoatrial conduction.	Reentrant tachycardia occurred after implantation of an atrial synchronous ventricular-inhibited pacemaker in a patient with bradycardia caused by second-degree (Mobitz II) atrioventricular block. Despite the presence of antegrade atrioventricular block, intact ventriculoatrial conduction was present at a cycle length that exceeded the atrial refractory period of the pacemaker. Consequently, a reentrant or &quot;endless-loop&quot; tachycardia occurred. Application of a magnet terminated the tachycardia. Because the episodes were frequent and could not be prevented by medication, the pacemaker was reprogrammed to a ventricular-inhibited mode. All candidates for atrial synchronous pacing should undergo an appropriate electrophysiologic study preoperatively.
6918024	Mental health issues in the elderly.	A practical, clinical approach to the diagnosis of depression in the elderly is described, and guidelines are suggested for treatment of depression by pharmacotherapy, electroconvulsive therapy, and psychotherapy, Clinical dementia is reversible in one-fifth of elderly patients with this disorder. For those with irreversible dementias management of the environment and pharmacotherapy are recommended.
6933129	Establishment and characterization of cell lines from homozygous brachyury (T/T) embryos of the mouse.	Lethal mutations in the T/t complex cause stage-specific morphologic abnormalities during early embryogenesis of mice. Although mutant embryos are lethal at the early stages of development, we have succeeded in establishing several cell lines from one of these mutants (T/T). Mutant-specific abnormality was not observed in gross morphology and growth patterns of cells. They, however, retained the characters of freshly dissociated embryonic cells to form smaller aggregates than the wild-type in rotation-mediated aggregation. One of the T/T cell lines (T-1) formed tumors when injected into one-day-old syngeneic and allogeneic host. Expression of H-2 antigens was serologically studied with H-2 specificity 5 as a marker antigen. All lines except T-1 were shown to have this specificity.
6942010	Pharmacology of local anesthetic agents.	Local anesthetic agents may be classified according to their intrinsic anesthetic potency and duration of activity. Procaine and chloroprocaine are relatively weak, short-acting drugs. Lidocaine, mepivacaine, and prilocaine represent agents of intermediate potency and duration of action. Tetracaine, bupivacaine, and etidocaine are highly potent, long-acting agents. The toxicity of local anesthetic drugs is usually due to inadvertent rapid intravascular injection or extravascular administration of an excessive amount. Intravascular toxicity is correlated with intrinsic anesthetic potency, whereas toxicity following extravascular injections is a function of physiological disposition characteristics of the various agents, such as rate of vascular absorption, rate of tissue redistribution, and rate of metabolism. The central nervous system is most susceptible to the toxic effects of local anesthetic agents. Signs and symptoms of CNS excitation followed by depression are the most common manifestations of local anesthetic toxicity. Cardiovascular depression may also occur following administration of excessive doses of local anesthetic agents or following high spinal or epidural anesthesia.
6977900	Absorption of shed I-Ak and H-2Kk antigens by lymphoid cells.	The fate of cell surface I-Ak and H-2Kk antigens shed by murine spleen cells in culture was studied by incubation of nonlabeled spleen cells or splenic T or B cells with culture fluids containing shed radiolabeled alloantigens. Approximately 30 to 40% of the shed alloantigens could be absorbed by syngeneic or allogeneic murine T cells, B cells, or macrophages, but not by heterologous erythrocytes of human peripheral blood lymphocytes. Absorption was dependent on temperature and lipids associated with the shed glycoproteins. Once absorbed, the alloantigens were catabolized by the absorbing cells with a half-life of approximately 4 hr. It is suggested that absorption of shed cell surface alloantigens may be a vehicle for intercellular communication in the immune system.
6978962	Circulating vitamin D metabolite concentrations in childhood renal diseases.	Vitamin D metabolites were measured in children, untreated with glucocorticoids, who had renal disease. Two groups were defined in relation to endogenous creatinine clearance values: those with impaired clearance , 0 to 48 ml/min per 1.73 m2; and those with unimpaired clearance, 75 to 150 ml/min per 1.73 m2. Serum 1.25(OH)2D was 16 +/- (SD) 12 pg/ml in impaired patients (N=24) and 48 +/- 16 pg/ml in unimpaired patients (N=18). The latter level is not different from healthy childhood controls (43 +/- 12 pg/ml; N=194). Serum samples of 25(OH)D2 and D3 were comparable in each group and not different from control values of 33.2 +/- 10.3 ng/ml. Serum 24,25(OH)2D was 0.6 +/- (SD) 0.14 ng/ml in patients with a clearance of less than 13 ml/min per 1.73 m2, 1.39 +/- 0.54 ng/ml in those with a clearance of 18 to 48 ml/min per 1.73 m2, and 152 +/- 0.91 ng/ml in patients without an impairment of clearance. Only patients with the lowest clearance had values different from control values of 1.70 +/- 0.57 ng/ml. In our study we suggest that a significant reduction in 24,25(OH)2D and 1,25(OH)2D are found at low clearance values in children with tubulointerstitial disease. Our study further suggests that a reduction in renal tubular mass is important in accounting for these changes in vitamin D metabolite values.
6979439	Blood velocity, flow and dimensions of aortocoronary venous bypass grafts in the postoperative state.	Intraoperative measurements have suggested an interrelation between the diameter of aortocoronary venous bypass (ACVB) grafts and the hemodynamic properties that may influence the functional results and long-term graft patency. We therefore studied the function of 35 nonobstructed ACVB grafts in 34 patients 1-59 months after bypass grafting. The mean blood velocity and flow were assessed using the roentgen videodensitometric technique. Graft diameters were obtained by morphometry from 35- or 70-mm cineangiograms taken in two orthogonal projections. The regional resistance of the graft-dependent area was calculated as mean aortic pressure/ACVB flow. The average graft diameter was 3.67 mm, the average graft-to-host vessel diameter ratio 1.5, the average ACVB blood velocity 8.5 cm/sec, the average flow 55 ml/min, and the average regional resistance 2.8 mm Hg/ml/min. No significant differences were observed for different graft locations or for different postoperative time intervals. Neither ACVB blood velocity nor flow correlated convincingly with graft size, but there was a significant inverse relation between graft diameter and the resistance of the graft-dependent area. We conclude that ACVB hemodynamics generally cannot be predicted by the dimensions of the graft in the postoperative state. Our data suggest that venous bypass grafts may adjust in size to the needs of the myocardial region supplied by the graft after operation.
6983808	An investigation into cytotoxic mechanisms in type I diabetes mellitus.	T- and K-cell cytotoxic activity has been measured in groups of type I diabetic patients and comparable groups of healthy control subjects. The mean cytotoxic indices for T-cell activity were 0.72 for 13 type I diabetics and -2.38 for a control group. These values are not significantly different. K-cell cytotoxic activity was measured using both chicken red blood cells and Chang liver cells coated with appropriate xenogenic antibodies. Using the chicken red blood cell system the percentage specific chromium release was 55.3 for 17 type I diabetics and 50.0 for a control group. These values are not significantly different. Using the chicken red blood cell system the percentage specific chromium release was 55.3 for 17 type I diabetics and 50.0 for a control group. These values are not significantly different. Using the Chang liver cell system the percentage specific chromium release was 13.9 for 37 type I diabetics and 9.7 for a control group. This difference is statistically significant (p less than 0.05).
6993064	The detection of circulating immune complexes in renal transplant patients.	The Raji cell assay and radiolabelled Clq binding method were used to detect circulating immune complexes in the sera of renal transplant patients. Complexes were found in seven of twelve patients using the Raji cell assay; only one serum sample was positive by the Clq method. In five patients the complexes were detected prior to the clinical diagnosis of rejection and in those in whom treatment reversed the rejection the complexes rapidly disappeared. The presence of complexes correlated with a vascular type of rejection characterised by fibrin deposits in the glomeruli in the absence of immunoglobulin or C3 deposits. In two patients, in whom anti red cell antibodies were present, irreversible rejection occurred without the presence of detectable complexes in the sera.
7000876	Field application of evaluated methodology for determining 1,2-dibromoethane, EDB, in ambient air.	EDB (ethylene dibromide) is of regulatory interest because it has cancer inducing properties and is a causative agent of aspermia. Previously evaluated methodology was used to determine the extent of exposure of workers to EDB in citrus fumigation stations and a warehouse used as a holding site before shipment. The purpose of this effort was to carry out environmental sampling, and to determine the exposure level of workers and related administrative personnel at two citrus fumigation centers and at a warehouse.
7014987	[Cerebral computed tomography in acute childhood leukemias]	It is suggested that cranial computerized (axial) tomography permits a more complete neurologic work-up for all children with acute leukemia. It also permits a better knowledge of the frequency and varieties of cerebral complications in leukemia. Endocranial complications in acute leukemia are essentially infiltrative, hemorrhagic, infectious or iatrogenic. Cranial computerized tomography can demonstrate cerebral changes in meningeal leukemia, hemorrhages, calcifications, brain atrophy or leukencephalopathy. The preliminary results of cranial computerized tomography in childhood leukemia suggest that the iatrogenic main lesion of the brain due to combined radiation-chemotherapy is atrophy whereas that of the intrathecal cytostatic therapy is demyelination. Accurate diagnostics and control of possible cerebral complications in therapy of leukemia is essentially for appropriate therapeutic management. For that cranial computerized tomography may be the best method to a effective exploration of the brain.
7059406	Study of children of parents operated on for congenital cardiovascular malformations.	The incidence of congenital cardiovascular malformation was studied in 246 children of 166 index patients who had been operated upon for this. Twelve children were affected (4 . 9%). More than half of these had the same malformation as the parent. The incidence of other extracardiac congenital abnormalities did not exceed that recorded in Hungary for the population in general.
7074557	Four-drug combination chemotherapy for advanced cervical carcinoma.	Thirty-one patients with advanced stage squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix were treated with the four-drug combination fluorouracil, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and vincristine. Four patients achieved complete remission (13%) and 15 partial remission (45%). The only factor of adverse prognostic significance was poor initial patient performance. Median survival for the patients entering complete remission exceeded 54 weeks and was 43 weeks for patients achieving partial remission. Seven patients are still alive at 50 weeks. This represents a notable prolongation of survival compared with those patients who did not achieve remission. Toxicity for the combination was not excessive; myelosuppression and vincristine-induced neuropathy were the most prominent. These results are moderately encouraging and confirm the sensitivity of cervical carcinoma to systemic chemotherapy. Further studies to define the optimal use of chemotherapy in both advanced and earlier stages of disease are warranted.
7076016	Cholecystokinin-like activity in the duodenal mucosa of duodenal ulcer patients.	Cholecystokinin-like activity in the duodenal mucosa was measured by the bioassay method described by Ljungberg to elucidate its significance in 14 duodenal ulcer patients as well as in 13 normal subjects with no evidence of gastrointestinal diseases. The stage of duodenal ulceration was determined endoscopically according to the criterion of the Japanese Gastroenterological Endoscopic Society. The cholecystokinin-like activity in the duodenal mucosa of duodenal ulcer patients in active stage 1, which was considered as an early stage of active open duodenal ulceration, did not differ statistically from that of normal subjects, whereas that of duodenal ulcer patients in active stage 2 began to show a significant increase (p less than 0.05), and the cholecystokinin-like activity in the duodenal mucosa of duodenal ulcer patients in healing stage 1 or healing stage 2 was significantly higher than that in normal subjects (p less than 0.01). The cholecystokinin-like activity in the duodenal mucosa of duodenal ulcer patients in the scarring stage, however, returned to the normal range. It is concluded that cholecystokinin may act physiologically in the cure of duodenal ulcer.
7081701	Anaesthesia for cystectomy. A comparison of two anaesthetic techniques.	Sixty-two patients who underwent radical cystectomy for deeply infiltrating cancer of the bladder were reviewed. Twenty-four received an epidural anaesthetic and 38 a conventional muscle relaxant and fentanyl anaesthetic. The epidural technique was found to offer advantages because of its hypotensive effects reducing blood loss intra-operatively and its use to provide analgesia after surgery. A high incidence of complications accompanied the surgery and frail patients (below 50 kg) and those with symptomatic respiratory disease had a high mortality. Greater attention to pre-operative care of such patients is indicated.
7089123	[Treatment trials with hemofiltration/hemodialysis in pernicious catatonia]	Two juvenile patients affected for the first time with pernicious catatonia were treated repeatedly with combined hemofiltration and hemodialysis. During the first two or three sessions, the distinct psychopathological improvement only persisted during the session itself and in a lesser degree during the following hours. It was only after further treatments that the therapy effect lasted longer and passed over into a continuous remission tendency. The findings might support a toxin hypothesis (in a broad sense) with respect to the genesis of catatonia and encourage a continuation of the studies.
7093796	Changes in the microvasculature of skin subjected to thermal injury.	Guinea-pigs were anaesthetized and the caudal 50 per cent of the animal was scalded by immersion in boiling water (100 degrees C) for 3 seconds. Skin samples were obtained from 15 minutes to 24 hours after scalding. The microvascular alterations characteristic of experimentally-induced severe inflammatory responses were studied by electron microscopy. Large intercellular gaps were present in venule endothelium by 15 minutes after injury and in capillary endothelium by 30 minutes after injury. These were detectable for at least 24 hours after the burn. Extensive destruction was observed in peripheral nerves 15 minutes after injury. These were detectable for at least 24 hours after the burn. Extensive destruction was observed in peripheral nerves 15 minutes after injury and in endothelial cells 4 hours after scalding. No morphological evidence of a biphasic pattern of increased vascular permeability was detected in this material. The standardized, reproducible conditions of this study could be used to evaluate the efficacy of anti-inflammatory procedures of burn treatments of skin.
7111675	The influence of cigarette smoking and its withdrawal on the annual change of lung function in pulmonary emphysema.	Fifty-six male patients with pulmonary emphysema were followed for a minimum period of three years (range 3-13), to observe the effects of smoking and smoking withdrawal. The subjects were divided into smokers (Group S) and ex-smokers (Group EX-S). Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and vital capacity (VC) declined at a significantly (p less than 0.001) faster rate in those who continued to smoke than in ex-smokers. No significant difference between the two groups was observed for kCO (permeability coefficient) and PaO2 (arterial oxygen tension). There was a significant (p less than 0.001) difference between the two groups in the annual change in body weight. We conclude that all patients with emphysema, even those with advanced disease, should be encouraged to stop smoking.
7137132	Natural networks: help-giving and help-seeking in two rural communities.	A group of 213 respondents in rural communities were interviewed about their help-giving and help-seeking behaviors related to 11 problems of living. Respondents were asked whom they had talked to within their natural community networks, who was most helpful, and how effective they rated the helping. The results indicate that over 80% of the respondents saw themselves as active help-givers and receivers in exchanges with spouses, friends, relatives, and others. A wide range of helping activities were reported, led by attempts to understand another person's situation and feelings and just listening. Differences in help-giving and help-seeking were noted. Respondents indicated a general willingness to tackle problems, a preference for help from people within their networks, and that this type of help is effective.
7184892	Endometrial cancers occurring 10 or more years after pelvic irradiation for carcinoma.	Fifteen patients who developed cancer of the endometrium 10 or more years after pelvic irradiation for carcinoma were selected for study from a group of 64 cases of postirradiation malignant pelvic tumors diagnosed during a 48-year span. The average interval between radiotherapy and diagnosis of the subsequent endometrial cancer was 17.2 years. Irradiation initially had been done for squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix in 13 cases (87%) and for ovarian tumors in two instances. Almost all patients had received megavoltage external radiation combined with radium implants. Two-thirds of the tumors were adenocarcinomas and one-third were carcinosarcomas (either homologous or heterologous). Although the risk of second primary malignant tumors following therapeutic irradiation for pelvic tumors probably is very low, the emergence of new genital tract cancers in long-term survivors must be anticipated, regardless of whether the postirradiation cancers are spontaneous or radiation-induced.
7197717	Apomorphine: bioavailability and effect on stereotyped cage climbing in mice.	Plasma levels fo apomorphine and its conjugates were studied following intravenous, intraperitoneal, and oral administrations to mice. Following hydrolysis, apomorphine and its conjugates were assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography. The absolute bioavailability of apomorphine was 4%. A significant first-pass effect due to extensive conjugation in the liver was postulated based on calculated bioavailabilities and comparison of plasma levels of apomorphine and its conjugates following oral, intraperitoneal, and intravenous administrations. Apomorphine-induced stereotypical cage climbing in mice was investigated following administration of apomorphine by the three routes. Analysis of time-course data obtained from the cage-climbing experiments indicated an absolute bioavailability of 16% for apomorphine.
7205249	The effect of intraperitoneal injection of GABA or GHBA on monoamine histofluorescence in the rat brain.	Using the Falck-Hillarp histofluorescence method we studied the effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHBA) on catecholaminergic (CA) and serotoninergic (5-HT) neurons in the rat brain. Both GABA as well as GHBA enhanced the CA fluorescence in noradrenergic (NA) terminals in the cerebellar cortex, which suggested that the NA content increased in these terminals. GHBA but not GABA also enhanced the fluorescence in dopaminergic (DA) terminals in the neostriatum and limbic structures. No significant changes of fluorescence were found in 5-HT neurons after both compounds. The results obtained suggest that, apart from the known GABA-DA interaction, there exists also a GABA-NA interaction in the cerebellar cortex.
7213480	[Arterial and venous microanastomoses in the rat]	Arterial and venous microvascular surgery for diameters smaller than 2 mm are shown with particular care. Some technical devices are put in evidence. Besides their statistical data the Authors present immediate and long term post-operative controls which are usually applied. The most frequent causes of failure are discussed.
7217929	Are the &quot;addiction-related&quot; problems of substance abusers really related?	The &quot;addiction-related&quot; medical, social, and psychological problems of substance abusers are often considered by-products of prolonged alcohol or drug abuse which will be generally improved following achievement of abstinence. As a test of this view, measures of problem severity in six areas commonly related to addiction were intercorrelated in 460 alcoholic and 282 drug addicted male veterans. Both before and after treatment, the low intercorrelations in each sample indicated little relation between the severity of alcohol or drug use and the severity of the other problem areas. Intercorrelations among residualized admission to follow-up change scores were similarly low, also showing the lack of a general relationship between improvement in substance abuse and improvement in other areas. However, there was one exception: improvement in psychological function was clearly related to general improvement in most other areas, including chemical abuse, indicating the potential importance of psychologically oriented therapy in substance abuse treatment. Most of the evidence suggests that addiction may be a common pathway for a variety of specific disorders, rather than a general, progressive disease.
7219246	Selective resolution of plaques and treatment of atherosclerosis by biophysical alteration of &quot;cellular&quot; and &quot;intracellular&quot; properties.	Presenting a totally new approach to the effective treatment of Atherosclerosis through the alteration of biophysical properties both &quot;intracellularly&quot; and &quot;extracellularly.&quot; The experimental data is preliminary but the results obtained indicate that by allowing the atherosclerotic lesions to take up the magnetically excitable submicron particles and then applying an external alternating electromagnetic field, the atherosclerotic lesions may be selectively resolved without damaging normal blood vessels. This concept suggests many areas of investigation since there are a variety of means of biophysically altering the atherosclerotic plaques, and many substances may be utilized to enhance the process. This new technology and this initial experimentation introduces a &quot;new era&quot; in the effective treatment of Atherosclerosis.
7219569	Differential electrophysiological and behavioral responses to optically active derivatives of phencyclidine.	Dextro- and levorotatory isomers of 1-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3-methylpiperidine (PCMP) were synthesized. Both isomers inhibited spontaneous cerebellar Purkinje neuron firing when applied locally by pressure ejection. This effect was dose-dependent, with the (+)-isomer about 5--7 times more potent than the (-)-isomer. Both isomers also depressed rotarod performance in mice. Again, the (+)-isomer was about 5 times more potent than the (-)-isomer. Both rotarod performance and Purkinje cells discharge were depressed maximally 10--15 min after i.p. injection of drug. Our results suggest a correlation between behavioral performance and central neuron electrophysiological activity and suggest that the central actions of PCP or its derivatives are probably mediated at one locus, by a stereospecific mechanism.
7225297	Reliability of ultrasound as compared to direct fetal electrocardiography for antepartum cardiotocography.	Eighty-five pairs of simultaneously recorded external and internal cardiotocograms (CTGs) were coded and evaluated with a ten-point scoring system routinely used for the assessment of antepartum CTG. The highest consistency in interpretation between the external ultrasound and the internal fetal scalp CTG was found for basal heart rate followed by decelerations. Oscillatory amplitude and frequency were interpreted differently in 14 per cent of CTGs and accelerations in 16 per cent. When differences in interpretation arose, there was certainly no tendency for the external CTG to present an optimistic image of the fetal heart rate variables. With the exception of oscillatory amplitude all variables, including oscillatory frequency and the total CTG score, were more frequently underestimated than overestimated on external CTGs. When accelerations were present on only one recording, there was an 85 per cent chance for these to be absent on the external CTG. The study abolishes fears that the routine clinical assessment of antepartum CTGs of adequate technical quality provides overrated and more optimistic data than would by achieved by direct fetal scalp monitoring.
7226618	Treatment of congenital hip dislocation and dysplasia with the Pavlik harness.	The Pavlik harness proved to be a successful means of treating congenital hip dislocation and dysplasia. Success occurred without significant complications in 99% of the treated hips.
7231282	Melioidosis in the Northern Territory of Australia.	Melioidosis is being diagnosed with increasing frequency in the northern part of the Northern Territory, but the mortality rate remains high in the acute septicaemic form of the disease largely because of associated chronic debilitating illnesses. This paper reviews epidemiological and clinical features of human melioidosis in 37 cases seen between 1960 and 1979. Infection with Pseudomonas pseudomallei is most often contracted during the wet season by persons who have regular contact with soil or ground water, probably through pre-existing skin lesions or penetrating wounds and, occasionally, through the genitourinary tract. The clinical features of melioidosis are protean, and definitive diagnosis can only be made by bacterial culture. Certain strongly indicative features, however, may justify vigorous early treatment with antibiotics (tetracycline or doxycycline in some combination with chloramphenicol, kanamycin or trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole) which can be life-saving in fulminant septicaemic melioidosis. These indicative features are a severely prostrating fever with signs of respiratory tract infection in a patient with a chronic debilitating condition (particularly chronic alcoholism, diabetes mellitus, malnutrition or leprosy), with regular soil contact, and with chronic or recurrent skin lesions or a recent history of a penetrating wound. In subacute or chronic forms of melioidosis, which usually localize in an organ system, the diagnosis is commonly an unexpected bacteriological finding and the prognosis is generally good.
7233967	Anabolic steroids. Part 2: the disposition of ethylestrenol in the rat.	1. The absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of [3H]ethylestrenol were studied in the rat. 2. Approximately one third of an intragastric dose was absorbed; 17% of the dose was excreted in urine and 83% in faeces within 10 days. 3. The dose is distributed throughout the rat, and kidney and liver were found to contain respectively 2.5-3 and 5-7 times the average specific activity of all other tissues. 4. Unchanged ethylestrenol was the only component detected in urine. Ethylestrenol was also found in faeces, along with two different dihydroxylated dihydro derivatives and one trihydroxylated dihydro derivative.
7245445	Sertoli cell testicular tumors.	The testicular Sertoli cell tumor is generally considered a benign tumor that can be treated by orchiectomy and close follow-up. It accounts for less than 1.5 per cent of testis tumors and may be malignant in 10 per cent of cases. Approximately 30 per cent have endocrine activity. We present 5 additional cases to the 75 previously reported in the world literature.
7256489	[Presence of Pityrosporum ovale in the ear of newborn infants]	Lipophilic yeasts of the genus Pityrosporum were found in random samples from the external ear of 7% of 101 neonates and 8% of 111 infants 3 days old. The yeasts were also found in 70.4% of 132 specimens from adult female external genitalia. There were no isolations of Pityrosporum from 46 intravaginal specimens or samples of baby oil.
7276177	Maternal compliance and children's self-concept in cystic fibrosis.	To examine the hypothesis that the degree of maternal compliance with physical therapy regimens for cystic fibrosis (CF) is correlated with the child's psychological adjustment, compliance was classified by independent raters as &quot;moderate&quot; (intermediate) or &quot;unmoderated&quot; (rigid adherence or clear noncompliance). Compliance data were obtained in a structured self-report interview. The Piers-Harris Children's Self-Concept Scale was administered to the children (23 boys, aged 7-15 years) to measure this dimension of psychological adjustment. Children of mothers with unmoderated compliance scored significantly lower on total self-concept scores and on subtests measuring popularity and physical appearance and attributes than those with mothers whose compliance was rated as moderated. These findings, if confirmed in studies with larger samples that include girls with CF, have implications for practitioners who treat children with this disorder.
7281635	An inexpensive four channel demodulator for use in recording sleep biodata in the home environment.	An inexpensive four channel demodulator was developed for use with our existing four channel FM recording system to acquire sleep biodata in the home environment. The demodulator uses four Phase Lock Loop (PLL) circuits for demodulation with capture frequencies selected from the standard IRIG Proportional-Bandwidth FM subcarrier frequencies. Four channels (EMG, EEG and two EOG) may be recorded for six hours at the subject's/ patient's home on a standard 7 1/2 inch reel audio recorder; it may be played back the following day through the demodulator and recorded on a standard laboratory polygraph for subsequent scoring and analysis. The portable home sleep recording system is inexpensive to build (our cost, excluding development, was $160.00); it would be useful to sleep researchers and clinicains interested in comparing sleep in the home versus sleep in the lab, and allows recording of sleep in patients who are reluctant or unable to have their sleep recorded in a laboratory setting.
7282409	Responses to catecholamines and nerve stimulation of the perfused rete tibiotarsale and associated blood vessels in the hind limb of the Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos).	The rete tibiotarsale, which is a functional arterio-venous heat exchanger, and its associated blood vessels were perfused in situ and the responses to epinephrine (E), norepinephrine (NE), and perivascular nerve stimulation (NS) were studied. The vasoconstrictor response of the arterial shunt, which bypasses the rete, was significantly greater than in adjacent segments of the same artery. The constrictor responses to E, NE, and NS were reversibly blocked by the alpha-blocker phentolamine. The rete arteries were also capable of vasoconstriction, but during simultaneous perfusion of the arterial shunt and the rete arteries, stimulation with NE and E stopped perfusate flow in the shunt while the flow in the rete arteries increased. Segments of the large vein and rete veins were unresponsive to NE, E, and NS. The results support the previously reported morphological evidences for a sphincteric action of the shunt artery, but not of the shunt vein.
7290296	[Kinetics of ultrafiltration in peritoneal dialysis with long dialysate dwell: an &quot;in situ&quot; study (author's transl)]	In order to measure in situ the kinetics of peritoneal ultrafiltration in peritoneal dialysis (PD) with long dialysate dwell, a colorimetric method using autologous hemoglobin as a marker added to the dialysis fluid was evaluated in 10 patients on PD for periods ranging from 2 weeks to 20 months. Four different dialysate formulae were successively tested in the same patient. The results expressed as normalised ultrafiltration coefficient (UFK, ml/min/1.73 m2 s.a.) showed a wide scatter among the patients. However, the dilution curves successively obtained with dialysis fluids of varying osmolar concentration in the same patient were very consistent with each other, indicating that UFK was a characteristic of the individual peritoneal membrane. The data presented suggest that UFK should be measured in each patient at initiation of PD in order to prescribe the dialysate formulae and the diffusion times fitting best his individual needs. On the other hand, repetitive measurements of UFK in the same subject would allow a useful analysis of the hydraulic permeability of the peritoneum by detecting any significant change in this parameter during long term PD.
7299076	Studies on the residues of phosalone on chilli by GLC after multiband plate cleanup.	Four sprays of 0.05 and 0.10% phosalone were given on chilli (Capsicum annuum Linn.) crop at an interval of 15 days starting from 21 days after transplanting. Residues were determined in the green chilli fruits by GLC after cleanup of extract on multiband thin-layer plate. The half-lives of residues were 1.55 and 1.68 days on chilli fruits from the crop treated with four sprays of 0.05 and 0.10% phosalone respectively. The time required to reach the tolerance limit of 1 ppm after last spray with 0.05 and 0.10% emulsion was 4.75 and 7.62 days respectively. Washing of fruits under tap water was found effective in bringing down the level of phosalone residue by 21.64 to 75.11%.
7301110	Thalamic bleeding: diagnosis, course and prognosis.	Isolated thalamic bleeding without involvement of the internal capsule or other neighboring structures is extremely rare. Thalamic hemorrhage often leads to bleeding into the ventricular system. The extent of the bleeding is not a valid criterion for prognosis. The chance of survival was found to be poorest in initially comatose patients. CT is eminently suitable for determining the size and position of the hemorrhage and also for the followup of thalamic bleeding. No significant correlation was found between the clinical and CT outcome.
7309883	Sex, race, age, and education variables in Shipley-Hartford scores of alcoholic inpatients.	Administered the Shipley-Hartford Institute of Living Scale to 376 inpatients at a municipal hospital for the treatment of alcoholism. The results indicate that all of the independent variables under study-sex, race, age, and education - have a significant effect on one or more of the Shipley-Hartford scores. As these are considered extraneous variables whether the test is used to measure intelligence or organicity, group means ae provided as rough approximations to correct for bias. The results also provide some support for the validity of the Conceptual Quotient as an indication of organic impairment.
7320567	[Detection of left ventricular thrombi by echotomography and computed tomography (author's transl)]	Left ventricular (LV) thrombi are rarely recognized during life, though they are not infrequent at the post-mortem examination of patients succumbed to valvular disease, acute myocardial infarction, and cardiomyopathy. We presented five cases in which LV thrombi were detected by cross-sectional echocardiography (CSE) and confirmed by computed tomography. The main purpose of this study was to compare the echocardiographic findings of the LV thrombi with the manifestations of the LV thrombi on the computed tomograms, with a hope to augment the clinical utility of CSE in the detection of LV thrombi. CSE was recorded from the apical and four-chamber views in addition to the conventional approach. A computed tomographic whole-body scanner which utilized a continuously rotating gantry and pulsed anode with X-ray radiation collimated to form a thin fan-shaped beam was used. A complete section scan was performed in 3 seconds. Sustained enhancement was obtained with a rapid intravenous infusion of 30% meglumine iothalanate. Most of the LV thrombi showed an abnormal echo with irregular borders and/or a mobile mass echo at the apex by CSE. Computed tomographic findings suggestive of LV thrombi appeared as a defect, which was apparently different in quality from the surrounding myocardium or valvular apparatus. These findings were quite consistent with those of CSE with respect to the number and the location of the LV thrombi. Consequently, it may be concluded that CSE is a useful adjunct in the detection of LV thrombi and an additional use of computed tomograph will certainly open up a promising way to make the secure diagnosis of LV thrombi.
7326641	Effect of screening on the incidence of cervical cancer in Alberta.	The rates of registration of cases of in-situ and invasive cancer of the cervix in Alberta have fallen for women aged 35 and over since the introduction of screening in the early 1960s, as predicted by theory and described in Finland. However, for women aged 15 to 34 years of age the predicted pattern was followed only initially: the registration rate for in-situ and probably also invasive cancer increased after 1973. This could be due to an actual increase in the incidence of in-situ cancer of the cervix among younger women, as might be expected from the epidemiologic aspects of the disease, but it might also be due to increased recruitment of younger women to the screening program.
7327776	Alcohol-related advertisements in a college newspaper.	The college newspaper is a powerful socializing force on the university campus. Within the general context of a university-based Alcohol Abuse Prevention Project, the present investigation examined alcohol related advertising in a college newspaper at one southern university. Ads were categorized into those: (1) promoting the responsible use of alcohol, (2) promoting the irresponsible use of alcohol, and (3) having a neutral content. Results indicated that a great deal of alcohol-related advertising was presented in this publication, and the majority of advertising did not promote responsible use of the beverage. The potential role of the community-oriented professional as an intervention strategist is discussed.
7359919	Sarcoma of the stomach: clinicopathologic study of 43 cases.	The records of 43 patients with histologically proved primary gastric sarcoma treated at M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute between 1945 and 1975 were reviewed. Weight loss, abdominal pain, and hematemesis or melena were the most common symptoms, and palpable epigastric mass was the most common physical sign. Ninety-five percent of the gastric tumors were leiomyosarcomas. The median survival time and the five-year survival for the 29 patients who had curative gastrectomy were 33 months and 38%, respectively. Morphologic and histologic factors that adversely influenced the length of disease-free interval and survival following curative surgery included 1) primary tumor 8 cm or greater in diameter, 2) tumor extension to serosa of the stomach, and 3) low grade of differentiation of the primary tumor. Seventy-seven percent of recurrences in patients with curative tumor resection occurred within two years of resection of the primary. Of the 17 patients with advanced disease who received chemotherapy, two (15%) had objective tumor regression of greater a median survival time of eight months for patients who failed to respond. New approaches that may improve the results of treatment of gastric sarcoma are discussed.
7362467	Surgical treatment of chronic pancreatitis. A review after a ten-year experience.	Seventy-five operative procedures were done in 63 patients to correct one or more complications of chronic pancreatitis. Operations included resection, pancreaticojejunostomy, choledochoduodenostomy, draining and/or excision of pseudocysts, sphincteroplasty, and bypass surgery for relief of duodenal obstruction. All patients were followed up for up to 10 years, with 22 being followed up longer than five years. Recurrent pancreatitis occurred in three patients after resection and in two after drainage procedures, but attacks were milder with only an occasional occurrence. Operative procedures to relieve specific complications of chronic pancreatitis provided good results. However, because internal drainage of pseudocysts associated with chronic pancreatitis was frequently accompanied by recurrence of symptoms, excision offered better results. When the pancreatic duct was dilated, good results were obtained by pancreaticojejunostomy. In the absence of dilation, after strict preoperative slection of patients, and in the presence of diffuse parenchymal fibrosis, subtotal pancreatectomy is the procedure of choice.
7364068	Assessment of ovulation by ultrasound and estradiol levels during spontaneous and induced cycles.	Both Graafian follicle growth and subsequent ovulation were studied in 45 menstrual cycles of 28 patients by the estimation of plasma estradiol levels and by the measurement of follicle size and number by ultrasound. Twenty spontaneous ovulatory cycles were studied as controls compared with twenty cycles in which ovulation was induced by clomiphene and five cycles in which ovulation was induced by human pituitary gonadotropin. The means of the peak estradiol levels during the cycles in which one follicle was present were 1553.1 +/- 87.8 pmoles/liter in the spontaneous cycles and 2296.8 +/- 163.4 pmoles/liter in the clomiphene-treated cycles. Ultrasound was shown to be complementary to endocrine profiles because the number and diameter of Graafian follicles could be measured accurately by this technique.
7378115	[Bioavailability of monofluoride preparations for dental caries prophylaxis (author's transl)]	Three different preparations containing 1 mg fluoride were given to 12 volunteers: preparation A, 1 hydrous solution, = 1 mg F-/100 ml, preparation B = 2 tablets at 0.5 mg F- and preparation C = 1NaF tablet with 1 mg F-. Representactive kinetic data could be obtained by means of restricted fluoride in the diet, a reproducible method yielding minimum detectable fluoride concentration and selection of suitable volunteers.. The enteral absorption of fluoride from solution A was more rapid (half-life of invasion = 20.2 min and 16.9 min, respectively). The delayed release is a consequence of the galenic mixture. In addition, the maximum concentration in plasma was greater and was reached sooner in preparation A when compared to the other preparations. In contrast, there was no difference in the areas under the curves, indicating that the relative bioavailability of fluoride is the same in all preparations.
7380713	Epidemiologic monitoring following an episode of pseudorabies involving swine, sheep, and cattle.	In April 1978, an episode of pseudorabies involved swine, sheep, and cattle on a farm in north-central Missouri. The herd of 48 farrowing sows was vaccinated, then separated from the sheep and cattle by double fencing. Within 4 days, death losses in sheep and cattle ceased, indicating that separation by double fencing is an effective means of controlling interspecies virus spread. Monitoring of pseudorabies in sows and their vaccinated offspring was done by serum neutralization testing and virus culturing of pharyngeal swabs for the following 12 months. Pseudorabies virus carriers were in the sow herd 6 months after the initial episode. The serologic response to vaccination of the offspring from immune sows was poor, but pigs segregated from their dams at weaning remained free of detectable infection. It was concluded that segragation at weaning may be useful when expensive breeding lines must be salvaged from an infected herd.
7384451	Reflux of barium into the middle ear during upper gastrointestinal series.	In four children, barium was refluxed into the nasopharynx, eustachian tubes, and middle ears during routine upper gastrointestinal series. Three children had gastroesophageal reflux and one had incoordination of swallowing. The possible significance of such reflux with regard to middle ear disease is not known.
7389475	[Cytostatic effects on nucleic acid synthesis in primary tumors and lymph node metastases of human breast cancer (author's transl)]	Nucleic acid synthesis and influence of cytostatic agents (adriamycin, cyclophosphamide) were investigated in 73 cases of human breast cancer and in 19 cases of correlating lymph node metastases. An interrelationship between nucleic acid synthesis, proliferation and tumor stage could not be proven at the time of the operation. The labeling index, expressing the proliferation of tumor cells, and the incorporation of radiolabeled nucleic acid precursors (3H-thymidine, 3H-uridine) as an indicator of nucleic acid synthesis were higher in the investigated lymph node metastases than in the primary tumor. Nucleic acid synthesis was suppressed in primary and metastatic lesions in the same way by cytostatic agents.
7389992	Blood fluidity and coagulation phenomena in chronic arterial occlusive disease.	Blood fluidity depends on a number of factors of which especially the deformability of erythrocytes is of importance. Investigations reported in this paper have revealed an interdependence between blood fluidity and coagulability of blood. They confirm the significance of maintaining red cells deformability if an adequate microcirculation is to be provided in patients with occlusive vascular disease. High doses of oral pentoxifylline are able to improve erythrocyte flow rates in patients with occlusive vascular disorder. This agent also decreases platelet hyper-reactivity, a factor of importance in arresting the arteriosclerotic progression. In addition the hypercoagulability existing in such patients is reduced and the fibrinolytic system stimulated by treatment with the drug.
7391251	The relation of age to personality adjustment among DWI offenders.	Involved the assessment of perceived adjustment among individuals (N = 75) court assigned to DWI classes. Individuals 25 years and younger when compared to those 26 and older reported significantly higher levels of perceived maladjustment and emotional upset. Sex was related to interpersonal behavior; females reported significantly higher levels of introversive tendencies. A discussion of how age and sex relate to treatment and rehabilitation needs follows.
7391934	Determination of ketoprofen in biological fluids by reversed-phase chromatography.	A sensitive and specific high-performance liquid chromatographic method was developed for the determination of ketoprofen [2-(3-benzoylphenyl)propionic acid] in plasma and urine. The method includes an extraction of the drug and the internal standard [2-(4-benzoylphenyl)butyric acid] into ether from acidified plasma. The organic phase is evaporated, and the residue is dissolved in the mobile phase (acetonitrile-0.02 M phosphate buffer, pH 3) (45:55). A 20-microliter aliquot is analyzed on a reversed-phase column. The accuracy is within 1.5% for therapeutic concentrations, and the coefficients of variation are 5.5 and 3.4% for 2 and 10 micrograms/ml, respectively. For the urine assay, the accuracy is within 3%, and the cofficients of variation are 1.9 and 1.7% for 3 and 50 micrograms/ml, respectively. This method was applied successfully to the determination of ketoprofen in humans for pharmacokinetic studies.
7402790	Parents' perceptions of the psychological and social impact of home monitoring.	Self-assessments of 133 parents' (74 families) feelings, perceptions, reactions to stresses, and satisfactions during a period of electronic home monitoring are reported. Data were collected during structured interviews by students in a graduate social work program. Although extreme anxiety was prevalent initially, only 27.4% of the parents felt they were very anxious beyond the first month. Social life was restricted in 55.7% but job attendance was seldom affected. Only four parents felt very irritated by the increased demands of the monitored baby. The majority (72.9%) said that the monitor made them feel more comfortable with their baby. Only 14.2% felt that their marriage relationship worsened during the period of monitoring; two couples separated. Most supportive to parents were their spouses, least supportive were friends and relatives. With availability of a psychosocial support system, electronic home monitoring of infants can be conducted by parents without constant and extreme anxiety and, in their judgment, can even be a satisfying experience.
7418276	A new glycine containing compound with a blocked amino group from uremic body fluids.	A new compound was isolated from ultrafiltrate of uremic plasma. It was characterized by amino acid analysis, partial acid hydrolysis, studies of terminal groups, and electrophoretic and isotachophoretic properties. The results show that it contains three functional groups, an acidic moiety sensitive to removal by acid hydrolysis, glycine in possible oligopeptide linkage, and a remaining intermediate-sized acyl group.
7419389	The future health care organization.	A major task facing hospital administrators today is to prepare their institutions to take on substantial new responsibilities and roles in the future. Management initiative is the key ingredient.
7421761	Electron backscattering.	Although electron backscatter has been a subject of investigation for many years, both theory and experimental data are sparse. This article examines the available data and shows that a large percentage of both the theoretical and experimental values fit an empirical relationship for a large range of electron energies. This relationship appears to be valid both for beta-ray spectra and monoenergic electrons. This relationship appears to be valid both for beta-ray spectra and monoenergetic electrons. The empirical relation describing the intensity of electron backscatter is also valid over the entire range of atomic elements. The relationship proposed is that the backscatter of electrons is proportional to the log (Z + 1). Effective atomic numbers of compound and mixtures arrived at using this relationship can be used to predict backscatter coefficients for these.
7438506	A new syndrome of triphalangeal thumbs and brachy-ectrodactyly.	Two Mexican families in which a total of 17 persons exhibited the same pattern of limb malformations are described. The syndrome is characterized by triphalangeal thumbs and brachydactyly affecting the index fingers and the third toes. The clinical findings are variable and the inheritance is autosomal dominant. The syndrome, to the best of our knowledge, has not been described before.
7440272	Hysteresis in the relation between diffusing capacity of the lung and lung volume.	The diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (DLCO) varies directly with lung volume (VA) when measured during a breath-holding interval. DLCO measured during a slow exhalation from total lung capacity (TLC) to functional residual capacity (FRC) does not vary as VA changes. Since VA is reached by inhaling during breath holding and by exhaling during the slow exhalation maneuver, we hypothesized that the variability in the relation between DLCO and VA was due to hysteresis. To test this hypothesis, breath-holding measurements of DLCO were made at three lung volumes, both when VA was reached by inhaling from residual volume (RV) and when Va was reached by exhaling from TLC. At 72% TLC, DLCO was 22% higher when VA was reached by exhalation compared to inhalation (P &lt; 0.02). At 52% TLC, DLCO was 19% higher when VA was reached by exhalation compared to exhalation (P &lt; 0.005). DCLO measured during a slow exhalation fell on the exhalation limb of the CLCO/VA curve. these data indicate that there is hysteresis in DLCO with respect to lung volume.
7445394	Importance of gestation losses after non-surgical transfer of cultured and non-cultured bovine blastocysts.	Several techniques, including progesterone assay at days 21, 28 and 35, heat detection twice daily, rectal palpation at day 60 or planned slaughter, were combined to determine the importance of gestation losses after a single cervical transfer of 128, 10 to 12-day-old bovine embryos. Using non-cultured embryos (n = 83) transferred within six hours after recovery, 29.3 per cent of the initiated gestations were lost before day 60. Few abortions occurred after that stage. More than 50 per cent of the losses concerned preimplantation embryos from day 21 to day 35. When embryos cultured for 24 hours at 37 degrees C were used, there was a marked increase in the gestation loss (46.3 per cent) occurring mainly at the time of implantation. This suggests that the culture had a detrimental effect on the embryonic disc cells.
7448762	Analysis of alkylated sites at N-3 and N-7 positions of purines as an indicator for chemical carcinogens.	This study reports a rapid assay to distinguish depurination from other forms of alkaline-labile lesions induced in DNA by alkylating agents. Covalently closed circular duplex PM2 DNA was treated with various alkylating agents such as N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, dimethyl sulfate, methyl methanesulfonate, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea, diethyl sulfate, and ethyl methanesulfonate at pH 6.5. Apurinic sites and subsequent strand breaks were introduced by the hydrolysis of the alkylated purines under nondenaturing conditions by heating alkylated DNA at 70 degrees for 1.5 hr with 0.05 M 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid:KOH (pH 7.4), 0.1 M KCl, 0.01 M MgCl2, 0.0005 M ethylenediaminetetraacetate, 0.05 M glycine, and 0.01 M putrescine. The number of strand breaks produced, representing the alkylated sites at N-3 and N-7 positions of purines, were quantitated by electrophoresis in 1% neutral agarose slab gels. These results were compared with previously reported carcinogenic and mutagenic effects of these compounds, and a correlation between the apurinic sites, the total alkylated sites, and the biological effect of the alkylating agent was determined.
7452459	Use of stable isotopes in the study of pharmacokinetics of drugs by mass fragmentography II: Detailed examination of pharmacokinetics of a single oral dose of phenytoin in humans.	To study the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in detail, a mass fragmentographic method was applied for the precise, sensitive, and specific analysis of phenytoin, 5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-5-phenylhydantoin, and 5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-5-phenylhydantoin glucuronide in plasma and urine after administration of a single oral dose of phenytoin to two healthy volunteers. Salivary phenytoin concentrations also were measured. Phenytoin and 5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-5-phenylhydantoin were analyzed after the addition of deuterium-labeled internal standards and conversion to volatile methyl derivatives for mass fragmentographic analysis. The lower limit of detection was approximately 10 ng/ml. The simultaneous pharmacokinetic analysis of the plasma levels and urinary excretion data of phenytoin and its major metabolite, 5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-5-phenylhydantoin, yielded detailed information about the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin.
7475499	Breast disease.	Breast diseases are a common aspect of primary care practice. Common benign and malignant breast diseases are reviewed. The evaluation of common breast problems is presented and current recommendations for diagnostic and screening mammography are discussed.
7489596	Emergency rotational ablation of a calcified left main coronary artery stenosis in a patient with ischemic induced cardiogenic shock.	High-speed rotational ablation is ideal in the treatment of chronic calcified atherosclerotic lesions. This report describes an elderly woman with a prior history of coronary artery bypass surgery, who developed cardiogenic shock secondary to occlusion of a saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branch of the circumflex coronary artery. Her left main coronary artery was heavily calcified and almost completely occluded. She was treated successfully by high-speed rotational ablation of her left main stenosis.
7523913	Uptake and metabolism of ethene studied in a smoke-stop experiment.	Knowledge of the relationships between exposure levels and levels of hemoglobin adducts are essential when the latter are to be used for exposure monitoring or risk estimation, the hygienic control being based on measurements of exposure. These ratios are mostly very uncertain, mainly due to difficulties of determining the time-weighted average exposure concentration. A solution to this problem has been suggested involving adduct measurement before and after two consecutive periods of about 1 week, the first with absence from exposure, the second with careful measurement of exposure. This model was tested in two smokers who abstained from smoking for one week. Analysis of inhaled ethene and of adducts from ethylene oxide (EO) to N-terminal valine of hemoglobin are compatible with metabolism of 2% of inhaled ethene to EO and a detoxification rate of 1 h-1 of EO.
7546864	[Pleomorphic adenoma of the minor salivary gland]	Minor salivary gland tumors represent about 10-15% of salivary gland tumors. The most frequently seen histological type are pleomorphic adenomas, which are usually located at the hard palate. Clinical and pathological features of 7 cases are reviewed.
7552008	Pain relief after inguinal hernia repair: a randomized double-blind study.	A randomized double-blind study was undertaken using 0.5 per cent bupivacaine ilioinguinal field block and oral papaveretum-aspirin tablets to assess pain relief after hernia surgery. A consecutive series of 200 men undergoing repair of a unilateral inguinal hernia underwent random allocation into one of the four groups to receive: bupivacaine and papaveretum-aspirin (group 1), bupivacaine and oral placebo (group 2), saline and papaveretum-aspirin (group 3), or saline and oral placebo (group 4). Patients were prescribed postoperative opiates to be given on demand. Pain levels and mobility were assessed at 6 and 24 h after operation. Patients in group 1 reported significantly less pain, required less additional opiates and had better mobility than those in group 4 (pain score P &lt; 0.001 at 6 h and P = 0.002 at 24 h) and group 3 (P = 0.002 for pain and mobility scores at 6 h). Bupivacaine alone provided good immediate postoperative pain relief (P = 0.002 group 2 versus group 4 at 6 h). The combination of bupivacaine and papaveretum-aspirin provided the best results and is suitable for day-case postoperative analgesia.
7573281	First report of a vaginal foreign body perforating into the retroperitoneum.	Pelvic examination of a 19-year-old woman with recurrent pain after multiple laparotomies revealed a 4.0 cm paracervical fibroepithelial polyp and tender fullness in the left pelvis. Abdominal exploration had normal findings, but exploration of the retroperitoneum revealed an encysted bottle cap that had eroded through the vaginal wall years before.
7584507	Induced regression of bovine papillomas by intralesional immunotherapy.	It has long been assumed that papilloma regression is mediated by immunological mechanisms which are probably cellular in nature. The potentiation of these responses may alter the course of papilloma progression. Certain strains of the bacterium Corynebacterium parvum (Propionibacterium acnes) have been shown to augment cellular immune mechanisms by increasing both macrophage and natural killer cell activity. This study involves the use of naturally occurring bovine papillomas to investigate the immune mechanisms involved in induced papilloma regression. Papillomas were treated by intralesional injection of a C. parvum suspension. Treated papillomas were biopsied at various stages of regression. Tissue samples were subjected to immunohistochemical staining to identify specific infiltrating cells. Results showed that intralesional administration of C. parvum was capable of inducing regression of bovine papillomas in 8-15 weeks. Immunological staining revealed that regression was associated with an increased number of CD8+ and gamma delta+ cells in the dermis, as well as a marked infiltration of neutrophils.
7605394	Effect of whole-body hyperthermia on the development of peritumoral brain oedema.	The effect of whole-body hyperthermia on the development of peritumoral brain oedema and intracranial pressure was studied in cats with intracerebral transplanted tumour. Whole-body hyperthermia was achieved by means of extracorporeal circulation. The temperature within the brain tumour tissue was increased to 41.8 +/- 0.15 degrees C (mean +/- SD) for 2 h. Measurements of brain water content revealed that hyperthermia worsened the degree of peritumoral brain oedema. Microscopical observation demonstrated that extravasation of horseradish peroxidase, indicating disruption of the blood-brain barrier in the oedematous region, was more severe in animals exposed to hyperthermia than in non-treated animals. Intracranial pressure significantly increased from 13.5 +/- 5.26 mmHg to 25.8 +/- 6.16 mmHg (p &lt; 0.05) during hyperthermia, although it was controlled at 20.7 +/- 2.60 mmHg by continuous infusion of glycerol. The results suggest that whole-body hyperthermia acting on a brain-bearing tumour caused an increase in intracranial pressure due to worsening of the degree of peritumoral vasogenic type of brain oedema. We emphasize that whole-body hyperthermia may be performed with careful monitoring of intracranial pressure for patients who have brain tumour.
7606773	Immunophenotypic evidence for distinct populations of microglia in the rat hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system.	The morphology, distribution and immunophenotype of microglia throughout the adult rat hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system was examined. Four macrophage-associated antibodies (OX-42, F4/80, ED1 and ED2) were used; the expression of major histocompatibility complex antigens was investigated by use of antibodies against OX-6, OX-17 (MHC class II) and OX-18 (MHC class I). Three distinct types of microglia were identified. The first was located in the magnocellular nuclei; these 'radially branched' ('ramified') microglia had round cell bodies and long branched processes, and were strongly immunoreactive only for OX-42. The second was located outside the blood-brain barrier in the median eminence, pituitary stalk and neurohypophysis often close to blood vessels; these 'compact' microglia had irregular cell bodies and shorter processes, and were strongly labelled by OX-42 and F4/80, weakly labelled by OX-18, and generally unlabelled by ED1, ED2, OX-6 and OX-17. The third type was found in small numbers throughout the system at the surface of the nervous tissue or around blood vessels; these 'perivascular' microglia were elongated cells with no branching processes, and were strongly labelled by ED1, ED2, OX-18, OX-6, OX-17 and F4/80 antibodies but showed variable OX-42 immunoreactivity. Cells in a perivascular location were heterogeneous with respect to their immunophenotype. The presence in the normal adult rat hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system of MHC class-II molecules (OX-6 and OX-17) on a sub-set of perivascular microglia suggests that these cells are capable of presenting antigen to T lymphocytes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7609482	Three-dimensional recording and description of motions of the shoulder mechanism.	A measurement technique is presented for recording positions of the bones of the shoulder mechanism, i.e., thorax, clavicula, scapula and humerus, in 3-D space, based on palpating and recording positions of bony landmarks. The palpation technique implies that only static positions can be measured. Accuracy of retrieving bony landmarks is checked on-line using rigid body assumptions. The measurement error is calculated afterwards and is comparable with cinegraphic methods. Axial rotation of the clavicula is estimated by minimizing rotations in the acromioclavicular joint. A number of motion definitions is compared by means of interindividual variation and subjective interpretability. Two useful definitions are proposed for describing motions of the shoulder mechanism. Four conditions have been recorded: abduction and anteflexion of the humerus both with and without additional weight in the hand. Abduction and anteflexion result in large differences in scapular and clavicular motions. The effect of additional weight in the hand on the position of the shoulder girdle is negligible.
7613545	Acute right ventricular failure, pathophysiology and treatment.	Right ventricular (RV) failure is now accepted as a pathophysiological entity. This acceptance has stemmed from the increasing facility of bedside assessment of pump function using thermodilution techniques. The subsequent improvement in the assessment of RV volume changes has allowed existing theories to be confirmed. The anatomical disposition and geometry of the right ventricle allow it to adapt very well to wide variations in preload, but poorly to increases in afterload. In the presence of increased afterload, RV stroke volume decreases linearly with increasing resistance and the ventricle eventually dilates. This dilation is then responsible for further RV failure, due to decreased right coronary artery flow (from systolo-diastolic to diastolic only) at a time when myocardial oxygen consumption is increased. Furthermore, RV dilation shifts the interventricular septum to the left, decreasing left ventricular preload and, hence, the cardiac output. An often lethal vicious circle is induced. The main therapeutic goals aimed at breaking this circle are restoration of adequate oxygen delivery to the myocardium and diminution of RV afterload.
7615330	Vertical guided bone-graft augmentation in a new canine mandibular model.	Using the mandibular inferior border of four fox hounds from an extraoral approach, six high-profile Brnemark implants were placed in each animal and bone grafted. Graft materials studied included demineralized freeze-dried allograft with and without irradiation sterilization (3.8 x 10(4) Gy), corticocancellous iliac autograft, blood clot, and a control. Corticocancellous grafts were studied with and without expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (EPTFE) barriers. The barrier function improved both graft volume incorporated and bone-implant interface contact. The autograft performed better than the allograft. Irradiation of the allograft did not appear to affect graft performance. The barrier functioned to improve graft incorporation for augmentation and interface contact and gives credence to the use of barriers in conjunction with vertical augmentation grafting of jawbone.
7619040	Diabetes mellitus in aircrew--type I diabetes in a pilot.	Diabetes mellitus had traditionally been considered disqualifying for flying duties. Increasingly, our understanding of both Type I and Type II diabetes permits identification of subgroups of diabetics with an acceptable aeromedical risk. A case is presented of a Canadian Forces pilot with Type I diabetes who continues on restricted flying duties. The pathophysiology of Type I and Type II diabetes is discussed, as well as aeromedical considerations for returning a diabetic to flying status. Within an envelope of defined geographic and operational flying limitations, diabetic aircrew may be safely and usefully returned to restricted flying duties.
7629693	Urinary 6-sulphatoxymelatonin excretion reflects pineal melatonin secretion in the Djungarian hamster (Phodopus sungorus).	To monitor pineal function in the Djungarian hamster (Phodopus sungorus), we measured the urinary excretion of the melatonin metabolite 6-sulphatoxymelatonin (aMT6s) at 3-hr intervals by radioimmunoassay. Hamsters maintained in either long photoperiod (LP, LD 16:8) or short photoperiod (SP, LD 8:16) showed marked daily rhythms in aMT6s excretion, with elevated levels during the dark phase. In both photoperiods, we found large interindividual differences, mainly in the amplitude of the signal. However, the amplitude as well as the duration of nocturnal aMT6s excretion was higher in SP than in LP. Light exposure at night (180 mW/m2, 30 min) caused a decrease in aMT6s excretion, indicating that the pineal gland is the major source of urinary aMT6s. Moreover, there was a significant correlation between nocturnal pineal/plasma melatonin contents and 24-hr aMT6s excretion. We conclude that, measurements of aMT6s provide a valid and quantitative index of pineal melatonin synthesis in this hamster species. As an advantage in determining pineal melatonin contents, this approach will allow noninvasive long-term studies of individual animals under varying environmental conditions.
7635526	Rat intestinal dendritic cells: immunostimulatory potency and phenotypic characterization.	Dendritic cells (DC) acquire antigens in peripheral tissues, transport them to lymph nodes and present peptides to T cells. DC are particularly good activators of resting T cells. Murine Langerhans' cells (LC) are efficient at endocytosing and processing antigens but are very weak immunostimulators. In culture LC lose the ability to process antigen and become potent immunostimulators. Other peripheral DC are not well characterized and it is not known if they are similarly weak immunostimulators. We isolated DC from rat Peyer's patches (PP) and lamina propria (LP) of the small intestine, from intestinal lymph (LDC) and mesenteric lymph nodes, and examined their ability to stimulate an allogeneic mixed leucocyte reaction (MLR). Freshly isolated LP DC and PP DC could stimulate a moderate MLR but fresh LDC were significantly more potent. After overnight culture, LDC did not change their potency but DC from LP and PP became as potent as LDC. In contrast, fresh lymph node DC stimulated a MLR or oxidative mitogenesis as efficiently as LDC. These results show that the weak immunostimulation of murine LC is not characteristic of all peripheral DC. We compared the phenotypes of DC from different sites before and after culture. Different populations of DC show marked phenotypic heterogeneity in the expression of surface markers, particularly Thy-1, CD2 and the iC3b receptor. PP and LP DC were similar to MLN DC in their expression of markers, but differed from LDC. After culture there were marked changes in DC surface marker expression and the differences between the populations were reduced. These observations suggest that the heterogeneity observed in fresh populations does not signify different stages of maturation but may represent activation.
7646296	[Identification of hibernating myocardium using 99m sestamibi tomoscintigraphy at rest]	The aim of this study was to assess the value of resting 99m Tc-Sestamibi scintigraphy for the detection of hibernating myocardium in zones of contractile dysfunction. Based on a series of 25 patients, 27 segments of supposedly hibernating myocardium were identified. All these segments corresponded to left ventricular wall motion abnormalities confirmed by contrast angiography and were perfused by a stenosed coronary artery: none of these zones were infarcted. Before revascularisation, comparison of the results of ventriculography and scintigraphy showed a correlation (p &lt; 0.001) between the severity of regional contractile dysfunction appreciated by the center line method and the degree of myocardial hypofixation of 99m Tc MIBI. Three months after revascularisation, improvement of regional wall motion, assessed by control contrast angiography, was observed in 21 of the 27 segments studied (78%). Of these 21 segments, the viability of which was confirmed, 13 had a non-transmural uptake defect and 8 were normal on pre-revascularisation scintigraphy. The 6 segments without improvement at the 3 month control, had a transmural uptake defect on scintigraphy in 67% of cases. The authors concluded that when a residual uptake defect of 99m Tc sestamibi is present, viable myocardium may also be present.
7654013	Regulation of motility and invasion of cancer cells by human monocytic cells.	Tumour tissues are frequently seen with monocyte/macrophage infiltration. This study was to establish the role of monocytes on the motile and invasive behaviour of human cancer cells. By using a co-culture technique, we have shown that both human peripheral blood monocytes and a monocytic cell line, U937, stimulated colon and breast cancer cell colony scattering, motility, and invasion into a basement membrane (Matrigel). This effect was enhanced when monocytic cells were stimulated by a particulate stimulus. IL-4 and IL-10 reduced these effects of monocytes. We conclude that monocytic cells enhance the motility and invasion of tumour cells. These effects can be regulated by inhibitory cytokines of monocytes.
7658069	Transmission of cervical human papillomavirus infection by sexual activity: differences between low and high oncogenic risk types.	Not all studies have proven that cervical human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a sexually acquired condition. Determinants of HPV infection were analyzed in a survey of 718 asymptomatic women in northeastern Brazil. HPV DNA was detected and typed by polymerase chain reaction. HPV types were classified into low- and high-risk groups on the basis of their association with cervical carcinomas. Overall HPV prevalence (18.3%) was moderately associated with age at first intercourse (P = .111, trend) and number of lifetime sex partners (P = .005, trend). However, separate analyses by risk revealed different degrees of association with sexual activity. Except for a positive association with multiple partners among women &lt; 40 years old (P = .034, trend), infection with low-risk types (9.7%) was not correlated with sexual behavior. On the other hand, infection with high-risk HPV types (11.6%) was strongly and independently associated with both multiple partners (P = .009, trend) and age at first intercourse (P = .007, trend) in all age groups.
7663388	Ehrlich ascites tumour cells have a more active mitochondrial polyamine transporter than that of rat liver.	In this study we compare the uptake of spermine by mitochondria from Ehrlich ascites tumour cells with those from rat liver. The spermine uptake was membrane potential-dependent in both systems, but there were significant quantitative differences. The amount of spermine taken up by tumour mitochondria as a function of time was twice as large and a Lineweaver-Burk analysis showed that the Vmax was more than 6 times higher in tumour mitochondria. As in liver mitochondria, the uptake of spermine by ascites mitochondria was competitively inhibited by the polyamine spermidine and by putrescine. Mg2 was also inhibitory, as were the monovalent cations K+, Na+, Li+ and choline.
7676226	[Goiter: from epiphenomenon of iodine deficiency to benign tumor. A 30-year long guided story]	Thirty years ago, iodine deficiency was highly prevalent in Switzerland and, consequently, few people doubted that shortage of this element fully accounted for the very high incidence of nodular goiters. Most research efforts were aimed at unraveling the mechanisms that allowed the thyroid to maintain adequate hormone production - at the expense of goiter formation - despite insufficient iodine supply. In 1982 iodine deficiency was eradicated in this country, a remarkable achievement of preventive medicine. Although the incidence of goiter dramatically decreased thereafter, this thyroid disease has remained and still is a common problem. Only now has it become clear that factors other than or in addition to iodine shortage must be operative in goitrogenesis and that classical features, such as the tremendous functional and morphological heterogeneity of goitrous tissue, and, in particular, the growth of nodules, must result from causes and mechanisms that are common to the pathological growth of other tissues too. Subsequently, the thyroid has become a rewarding source of information about cellular and - more recently - molecular events that accompany and might possibly cause pathological growth. Today, thyroid nodules are considered to be true monoclonal and polyclonal tumors. Hence, we no longer wonder why eradication of iodine shortage cannot totally prevent or reverse goiter growth. - While modern molecular biology unravels - at an amazing pace - the mechanisms that cause heterogeneity between individuals of a single species, goitrogenesis offers a unique opportunity to go one step beyond, which is the inborn and acquired heterogeneity between the individual cells of the same tissue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7683092	Repair and misrepair of site-specific DNA double-strand breaks by human cell extracts.	The rejoining by human cell extracts of a double-strand break induced by endonuclease treatment at one of several sites within a small DNA molecule was studied. Rejoining was found at each of 8 sites tested, but the rejoin efficiency varied with the nature of the break (e.g., breaks with cohesive ends were rejoined more efficiently than blunt-ended breaks). Extracts from primary and immortalized cell lines, as well as those from individuals with ataxia telangiectasia (A-T), showed the same pattern of relative rejoin efficiencies. However, mis-rejoining varied with the cell extract used, and was particularly elevated with two immortalized A-T cell lines. Mixing experiments showed that the mis-rejoining property of extracts could act in a semi-dominant fashion, depending on the individual efficiencies of the component extracts. The mis-rejoin mechanism involved deletion at sites of short direct repeats at various distances from the initial break site. A model of deletion formation (the strand-exposure and repair model) is restated to explain the sequence repeat dependence found, and is compared to models of homologous DNA recombination.
7701307	Influence of a corpus luteum tissue extract on rabbit ovarian mesothelial cells.	This study investigates rabbit ovarian mesothelial (OM) cells exposed in vitro to a crude corpus luteum extract (CLE; 60 micrograms/ml). The growth of OM cells was evaluated by measuring the change in cell number (mean % +/- standard error of mean, SEM), the number of cell population doublings (CPD +/- SEM), and the cell population doubling time in hours (CPDT +/- SEM) after 7.5 days of culture in a serum-poor medium. Quantitative estimates of surface morphology changes were obtained by analyzing the total number (mean no. +/- SEM), density (mean no./100 microns 2 +/- SEM), and length-to-diameter ratio (mean L/D +/- SEM) of microvilli. OM cells in control medium formed loosely cohesive monolayers, and grew 152.53 +/- 11.01% with a CPD of 0.59 +/- 0.08 and a CPDT of 117.29 +/- 6.43 hours. The exposed surface area of these cells was over 8,000 microns 2 and was covered in its epinuclear region by long and slender microvilli with a L/D of 6.01 +/- 0.29. The total number of microvilli in each control cell was 1977.52 +/- 120.49 with a density of 0.58 +/- 0.03/100 microns 2 in the epinuclear region and of 0.05 +/- 0.003/150 microns 2 in the remaining surface area (5,161.62 +/- 354.43 microns 2). In contrast, CLE-rich cells cultures grew 329.57 +/- 16.65%, with a CPD of 1.71 +/- 0.07 and a CPDT of 53.43 +/- 2.93 hours.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7713072	Physiological consequences of acculturation: a 20-year study of fitness in an Inuit community.	Surveys in 1969/1970, 1979/1980, and 1989/1990 assessed physical fitness among adult Inuit living in Igloolik, Northwest Territories, Canada, during a period of rapid acculturation to a sedentary lifestyle. MANOVA for age, cohort, and age-cohort effects indicated significant trends to greater skinfold readings [male (M) and female (F)] and body mass (F only), a lower handgrip and knee extension force (M and F), and lower step test predictions of aerobic power (M and F) in the more recent cohorts, with no change of forced vital capacity, 1-s forced expiratory volume, or hemoglobin level. By 1989/1990, continuing hunters tended to have thicker skinfolds than other villagers, and showed no advantage of aerobic power. The average fitness of the sample when tested in 1989/1990 was comparable with that of sedentary populations in Southern Canada, but a minority of villagers who now practiced regular sport had conserved the high levels of fitness that were observed in 1969/1970. We conclude that the fitness of this community appears to have deteriorated markedly as it has become more sedentary, and we thus recommend that health authorities develop methods of promoting an active lifestyle that are culturally appropriate to the populations of circumpolar settlements.
7713999	Acidosis causes failure of astrocyte glutamate uptake during hypoxia.	Failure of glutamate uptake during ischemia can lead to neurotoxic accumulations of glutamate in brain extracellular space. Hypoxia and acidosis are metabolic consequences of ischemia that may individually or in combination impair glutamate uptake. We used primary rat astrocyte cultures to study the effects of acidosis, chemical hypoxia, and the combination of acidosis plus chemical hypoxia on glutamate uptake. Chemical hypoxia alone reduced uptake by 35-45%. Reduction in pH from 7.4 to 5.8 also caused a significant but incomplete inhibition of glutamate uptake, and this effect was more pronounced in medium buffered with CO2/bicarbonate. However, the combination of chemical hypoxia plus acidosis reduced glutamate uptake to below 10% of controls. Astrocyte ATP levels, like glutamate uptake, were significantly reduced by chemical hypoxia and further reduced by the combination of hypoxia plus acidosis. Acidosis under normoxic conditions had no significant effect on astrocyte ATP levels. These results suggest two mechanisms by which acidosis may contribute to failure of astrocyte glutamate uptake during ischemia: Acidosis may act in concert with hypoxia to cause ATP depletion, and acidosis may also have direct effects on glutamate transporters unrelated to effects on cellular ATP levels. pH effects on glutamate uptake may be an important factor affecting neuronal survival during incomplete ischemia.
7717363	How accurate is self-reported family history of colorectal cancer?	Much of the evidence that supports a relation between a positive family history of and increased risk for colorectal cancer is based on information obtained exclusively from patients. There have been few assessments of the accuracy of such data. The validity of self-reported family history of colorectal cancer was assessed in the course of a case-control study of colorectal adenomas conducted among patients aged 20-75 years who underwent colonoscopy in Brisbane, Australia between 1980 and 1985. Family histories reported by a subsample of 237 colonoscopy patients (74 cases and 163 controls) were compared with relatives' medical records and death certificates. Patients' reports of colorectal cancer in 90 relatives were confirmed for 70 (77.8%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 67.8-85.9). Among 124 reports by patients of relatives who had other abdominal cancer or bowel conditions, 114 (91.9%; 95% CI 85.7-96.1) were confirmed to be correct, while 10 (8.1%) were found to be colorectal cancer. Finally, 105 (99.1%; 95% CI 94.9-100.0) of a random sample of 106 completely negative reports by patients were confirmed to be correct. Overall, 77% of positive family histories (any positive relatives) were confirmed, and it was estimated that 98% of negative family histories (no positive relatives) were correct. Cases were slightly more accurate than controls in reporting both positive and negative histories among their relatives. By extrapolation of these results to the total sample of 1,244 patients in the larger case-control study, sensitivity of self-reported positive family history was estimated to be 0.87 among cases and 0.82 among controls, and specificity was estimated to be 0.97 in both groups.
7718712	[With respect to Tinel and Phalen's signs]	The increment sensibility of the median nerve's compressed fibres in the carpal tunnel constitute the basis of the most known clinical tests, Phalen's test an Tinel's sign, used for diagnosis of the Carpal Tunnel syndrome. The frequence of these signs found in the literature is very variable, by this reason we realized this work, for determining the correlation between these tests and the clinical features and the electro-diagnosis. In our series (288 hands) the Tinel's sign demonstrate significative correlation with the motor and sensory conduction velocity (p &lt; 0.05), showing significative increase of its frequence when distal motor and sensory latency were upper 4.5 ms. Phalen's test non correlated with any electrical parameters. Nevertheless, 97% of cases with positive Phalen's test were typical clinic forms of Carpal Tunnel syndrome, white 85% of cases with positive Tinel's sign concerned to typical group.
7720285	Emergency intracardiac defibrillation for refractory ventricular fibrillation.	Hemodynamically unstable ventricular arrhythmias induced during electrophysiologic testing almost always respond to prompt application of direct current transthoracic shocks. In rare cases, however, ventricular fibrillation may be refractory to conventional treatment. Recently, a technique of intracardiac defibrillation has been successfully used to resuscitate patients with ventricular fibrillation refractory to transthoracic defibrillation. We describe two patients with a history of myocardial infarction and left ventricular dysfunction who were admitted with symptomatic episodes of ventricular tachycardia. Both had inducible sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia. During a repeat electrophysiologic study in Patient No. 1 on procainamide and at the initial study in Patient No. 2, right ventricular burst pacing to terminate ventricular tachycardia resulted in ventricular fibrillation refractory to resuscitation efforts, including transthoracic defibrillation with 360 J. Emergency intracardiac defibrillation with 200 and 360 J, respectively, successfully converted both patients to sinus rhythm. Both patients were subsequently discharged from the hospital on amiodarone. These cases illustrate the life-saving capabilities of intracardiac defibrillation.
7741172	Detection of circulating antigens of Toxoplasma gondii in human infection.	Seventy-nine serum specimens from pregnant women and 29 from immunocompromised patients (12 from graft recipients and 17 from patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) were classified into three groups according to their serologic status to Toxoplasma gondii as determined by immunofluorescence and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA): no antibodies (group 1), acute acquired infection (group 2), and reactivation (group 3). These samples were tested for the presence of circulating antigens (CAg) of T. gondii by capture ELISA and immunoblotting. The presence of CAg was detected by at least one of the two techniques in six of 31 subjects in group 1, 51 of 68 subjects in group 2, and seven of nine subjects in group 3. Of a total of 108 serum specimens, 28 were found to be T. gondii-positive by capture ELISA, 57 by immunoblotting, and 21 by both techniques. Among the nine polypeptides detected by immunoblotting, 38 recognized p14, 17 recognized p8, and 16 recognized p8, and 16 recognized p30. These results demonstrate that the detection of CAg can aid in the diagnosis of infection by T. gondii in humans, especially in immunocompromised patients whose serologic response can be impaired.
7751246	Bovine respiratory syncytial virus-specific immune responses in calves after inoculation with commercially available vaccines.	A study was designed to determine if inactivated bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) vaccines induce the same types of antibody and cellular responses as does a modified-live BRSV vaccine. Ninety mixed-breed, 5- to 6-month-old beef calves were randomly assigned to 1 of 6 groups with 15 animals/group. Calves in 5 of the groups were inoculated on days 0 and 14 with 1 of 4 inactivated virus vaccines or with a modified-live virus vaccine. The remaining 15 calves were maintained as unvaccinated controls. Immune responses were measured on days 0 and 24, by means of ELISA, virus neutralization assay, blocking ELISA for the BRSV fusion (F) protein, immunoblotting, and lymphocyte blastogenesis assay. All vaccines induced production of antibodies that recognized the F protein; however, the ratio of neutralizing antibody titer to change in BRSV-specific IgG antibody concentration (as determined by use of ELISA) was lower for calves that received an inactivated virus vaccine than for calves that received the modified-live virus vaccine. All of the vaccines induced lymphocyte proliferative responses to BRSV. Results suggest that commercially employed inactivation processes can alter functionally important epitopes on BRSV envelope glycoproteins, leading to production of predominantly nonneutralizing antibodies in immunized cattle.
7760365	Cardioprotection in an in vitro model of hypoxic preconditioning.	Short periods of myocardial ischemia appear to provide protection against subsequent prolonged ischemic episodes in experimental animals and in man. This phenomenon, known as ischemic preconditioning, has not yet been characterized at the cellular or molecular levels; however, tissue hypoxia appears to be required. In this study, we used a previously developed method for hypoxic cardiac myocyte culture in order to establish a model for ischemic (or hypoxic) preconditioning in cell culture. We demonstrate that cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes preconditioned by 25 min of exposure to hypoxia followed by reoxygenation were protected against membrane damage for up to 6 h of prolonged severe hypoxia, as determined by arachidonic acid release and contractile recovery. In contrast, non-preconditioned myocytes exhibited significant hypoxic damage after 2-4 h. Pretreatment of cells with PMA, a tumor-promoting phorbol ester, mimicked the protective effects of hypoxic preconditioning; pretreatment with the muscarinic cholinergic agonist carbachol had no effect. Our data suggests that isolated myocytes in culture remain competent to be preconditioned by hypoxia, through a pathway that may involve the activation of protein kinase C.
7760993	MRI of the incisural plane: assessment of normal brain stem position by age and transtentorial brain stem shift in disease.	The standardization on MRI of an anatomic plane passing through the tectum of the midbrain based on fixed landmarks allows assessment of the position of the brain stem during development and in normal adulthood, and comparison with its position in disease states. The level of the tectum relative to this incisural plane changes during normal cranial growth as well as in the presence of masses, frank brain stem herniation correlating with altered consciousness.
7765449	Inhibition of DNAse activity in PFGE analysis of DNA from Campylobacter jejuni.	DNAse-positive strains of Campylobacter jejuni degrade their chromosomal DNA during standard preparative procedures before pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). A simple method for inactivation of this DNAse activity is described. Formaldehyde fixation of the bacterial cells resulted in the preservation of the DNA in a state suitable for restriction digestion and subsequent electrophoretic analysis.
7774073	Evaluation of a rapid specific ward based assay for creatinine in blood.	We have evaluated a dry reagent stick test for the quantitation of creatinine in plasma employing a whole blood sample. The assay was found to be specific for creatinine and correlated well (r = 0.993) with an established laboratory procedure. The precision found indicated that the method was suitable for use in the diagnosis and monitoring of renal disease.
7776103	Pancreatic glucagon levels in infants and children with hyperinsulinemia.	Serum concentrations of pancreatic glucagon were measured in 40 patients with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. In infants with severe disease the glucagon levels were markedly elevated; lower levels were observed in children with episodic hypoglycemia. During diazoxide treatment and after pancreatectomy, the glucagon levels decreased proportionally to suppression of the insulin secretion. Thus the secretion of glucagon seems to be retained in hyperinsulinism in proportion to the insulin hypersecretion, and an increased glucagon level indicates long during and severity of hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia.
7778094	Adaptive cellular response to osmotic stress in pig articular chondrocytes.	The authors studied the effects of a wide range of medium osmolarities (from 0.28 osM (physiological osmolarity of plasma and synovial fluid) to 0.58 osM) by altering Na+ concentration in high density cultures of pig articular chondrocytes in order to analyze the behaviour of some functional and structural parameters during cell adaptation to these imposed changes in the ionic environment. Biochemical and morphological results indicated that, even if isolated from the tissue matrix and cultured in vitro, chondrocytes maintained active osmoregulation systems which are present in living conditions. They showed a similar biochemical and morphological behavior when cultured at 0.28 osM and 0.38 osM but they were able, with regard to protein synthesis, aminoacid transport and proliferation rates, to respond quickly and to adapt to 0.48 osM medium as well. On the contrary, the treatment at the highest osmolarity (0.58 osM) early altered these biochemical parameters and was detrimental or even gave rise to lethal damage during long-term treatment. Furthermore, while chondrocytes cultured in 0.28-0.38 osM medium maintained phenotypic characteristics in culture, the higher osmolarities (0.48-0.58 osM) caused morphological changes in cell populations resulting in loss of phenotypic cell stability as demonstrated by their taking on a fibroblast-like shape as well as a lack of ability to assembly matrix proteoglycans.
7778479	Obstetric privileges for family physicians: a national study.	BACKGROUND: We surveyed family physicians in the US to determine how many include obstetric services in their practices and to compare trends over time. METHODS: In the 1993 Practice Profile Survey, the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) surveyed a random sample of active members whose mailing address was in one of the 50 states or the District of Columbia. The sample was stratified by nine census divisions; after two mailings 2460 responses were received from the 4400 physicians in the sample (56 percent response). RESULTS: Eighty-seven percent of active members had hospital admission privileges. Although there were regional disparities in the proportion of family physicians with various hospital privileges, overall 94 percent perceived that the privileges afforded them were appropriate. Approximately 26 percent of AAFP active members in 1993, compared with 29 percent in 1988, included routine obstetric care in their hospital practices. A higher proportion of family physicians in the West North Central census division had privileges at various levels of obstetric care than did family physicians in other census divisions; for example, while 57 percent of family physicians in the West North Central census division had privileges in routine obstetric care, only 9 percent of family physicians in the East South Central division had these privileges. For those family physicians who did not have privileges for any obstetric care, most indicated that they chose not to include obstetric care in their hospital practices. Family physicians most likely to have had obstetric privileges included those who practiced in nonmetropolitan areas (39 percent of family physicians had privileges in routine obstetric care compared with 21 percent in an urban setting) and those who completed a family practice residency program (33 percent with routine obstetric privileges compared with 13 percent who did not complete a 3-year residency in family practice.
7779694	Preimplantation development of manipulated mouse zygotes fused with the second polar bodies: a cytogenetic study.	Immediately after fertilization one chromatid of each maternally-derived chromosome is extruded into the second polar body (2PB). We tested the ability of these &quot;extra&quot; chromosomes to support preimplantation development. Micromanipulation and electrofusion techniques were used to fuse 2PBs with diploid, haploid, or enucleated mouse zygotes. Androgenetic haploids, intact embryos, and digynic triploids served as the controls for the reconstructed embryos. Androgenetic haploid zygotes developed to the blastocyst stage only when fused with the 2PBs. This result demonstrates that even when extruded into the 2PB, chromosomes retain their ability to support normal preimplantation development. However, 2PB fusion with diploid zygote impaired preimplantation development. Normal development of experimentally produced digynic triploids (zygotes with one extra maternal pronucleus) indicated that developmental arrests, caused by the 2PB fusion, were not the result of triploidy or micromanipulation procedures. Cytogenetic studies showed that developmental failures of the reconstructed embryos were caused by premature chromosome condensation of the polar body chromosomes. This result indicates that 2PB must be removed from the zygotes' perivitelline space during animal cloning experiments. In addition, we showed that 2PB fusion with enucleated zygote is a reliable method for 2PB karyotyping and may be used in the studies of mammalian meiosis.
7795784	Achiral and chiral analysis of camazepam and metabolites by packed-column supercritical fluid chromatography.	Supercritical fluid chromatography, using carbon dioxide as the mobile phase and ethanol as a modifier, has been applied to the analysis of products formed in rat liver microsomal metabolism of racemic camazepam, a hypnotic/anxiolytic drug in clinical use. An achiral (amino) column and a chiral (Chiralcel OD-H) column were used. The results suggest that achiral and chiral packed-column supercritical fluid chromatography gives a shorter analysis time and higher selectivity and efficiency than achiral and chiral stationary-phase high-performance liquid chromatography in the analysis of camazepam and its derivatives.
7801777	Effect of procainamide on platelet adhesion in rats.	Effect of procainamide on platelet adhesion in rats was studied with the improved rotating glass sphere method. Procainamide of 136.0, 34.0, 8.5 mumol.L-1 in vitro and 10 mg.kg-1 in vivo inhibited significantly the platelet adhesion with the inhibitory rates of 56%, 28%, 8%, and 24%, respectively. It showed that procainamide given in vitro or in vivo produced an inhibition on platelet adhesion.
7820312	Adenylate energy charge of rat and human cultured hepatocytes.	A simple and rapid method for the assay of adenine nucleotides (ATP, ADP, and AMP) was established to evaluate the adenylate energy charge (ATP+ADP/2)/(ATP+ADP+AMP) of cultured hepatocytes. The effects of inhibitors of glycolysis, fatty acid oxidation, or oxidative phosphorylation on the energy charge were examined. The energy charges of cultured hepatocytes in rats and human were almost identical and were maintained at a high level between 6 and 24 h after changing the media (rat: 0.908 +/- 0.008 n = 9, human: 0.918 +/- 0.014 n = 6, mean +/- SD). Inhibition of glycolysis with sodium fluoride or oxidative phosphorylation with antimycin A irreversibly reduced both the adenine nucleotide contents and the energy charge. However, the inhibition of fatty acid oxidation with 2-tetradecylglycidic acid did not affect the nucleotide contents, and the energy charge only decreased transiently to recover within 8 h. When the inhibitor of oxidative phosphorylation was removed, the recovery in the energy charge preceded the recovery in the adenine nucleotide contents. These findings suggest that the adenylate energy charge is a more sensitive measure of the changes in energy metabolism than the adenine nucleotide contents. Furthermore, energy charge regulates adenine nucleotide contents in cultured hepatocytes. It is important to confirm that the high energy charge of the cultured hepatocytes is maintained when these cells are used for metabolic studies.
7823078	Somatosensory evoked blink response: findings in patients with Miller Fisher syndrome and in normal subjects.	Reflex blinking was elicited by the electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves and various parts of the body of seven of 11 patients with Miller Fisher syndrome. This reflex blinking disappeared during recovery. Reflex blinking was elicited in normal subjects only with specific stimulation of the peripheral nerves of their upper extremities. This response may be due to a release phenomenon transmitted via the brainstem reticular formation and may be useful in detecting latent CNS involvement in patients with Miller Fisher syndrome.
7827879	Duplex ultrasonography for assessment of venous valvular function of the lower limb.	Both legs of 29 patients with venous disease and those of 15 controls without venous disease were assessed by duplex ultrasonography. The duration of reverse flow after release of manual calf compression was measured in the common femoral, long saphenous, popliteal and short saphenous veins. Before undertaking the study, the reproducibility of the technique was evaluated in six subjects by repeating the examination over 3 consecutive days; the coefficient of variation of the test was 7.3 per cent. The 95 per cent confidence interval (c.i.) of the median (0.16 s) of all measurements in the normal limbs was 0.12-0.18 s. The 95 per cent c.i. for the 95th percentile of all measurements in normal limbs was 0.32-0.52 s. In limbs with clinical evidence of venous disease at least one of the sites examined was found to have reverse flow lasting longer than 0.5 s. These data suggest that the measurement of reverse flow after release of manual calf compression is a reproducible technique. While the method records some reverse flow in normal veins, its duration is unlikely to exceed 0.5 s; significant reflux is therefore defined as reverse flow exceeding 0.5 s.
7831518	The polio survivor as expert: implications for rehabilitation nursing research.	Clients' personal experiences with illness or tragedy can uniquely qualify them as experts in many research-relevant content areas. Nurse researchers can benefit from this expertise by involving such clients in important decision-making aspects of research planning. The advantages of consulting with client-experts in the early and subsequent stages of research are discussed in this article, which uses as an example the way such consultation has worked in the development of a study of coping in polio survivors. Consultation with client-experts is especially appropriate when research involves sensitive issues or the measurement of subjects at vulnerable periods in their lives. It is advocated as a means of helping to ensure that participants are questioned in the most ethical, sensitive way possible and that the research will address the needs and concerns of the target population.
7840705	[Comparative study of anti-tumor activity of the monoglucosides protopanaxadiol and betulafolientriol]	Antitumor and cytotoxic activity of monoglucosides such as 3-0-panaxadiol (1), 12-0-panaxadiol (2) and 20-0-panaxadiol (3) and 3-0-betulafolientriol (4), 12-0-betulafolientriol (5) and 20-0-betulafolientriol (6) was studied. It was found that in concentrations of 10 to 50 micrograms/ml the above monosides induced marked impairment of the selective permeability of the tumor cells and the inhibition of the labeled precursor inclusion into the macromolecule biosynthesis. Administration of the monosides in a single dose of 100 mg/kg 24 hours after the inoculation of the Ehrlich tumor cells resulted in prolongation of the mean life-span of the mice by 144 per cent (1), 153 per cent (2), 144 per cent (3), 125 per cent (4), 133 per cent (5) and 178 per cent (6). A significant reduction of the tumor mass was observed at the early stages of the tumor development and later the tumor progress intensively resumed. The tests for the effect of the monoside-activated macrophages on the growth of the tumor cells showed that production of the growth factors by the macrophages was stable and had a negative action on the efficacy of the chemotherapy with the monoglucosides.
7858622	Minilaparotomy for laparoscopy: not a foolproof procedure.	Minilaparotomy with placement of a trocar under direct vision has been felt to be a safe approach for establishing access to the intra-abdominal contents during laparoscopy. However, there is potential for hollow viscus injury. We report a case of a 23-year-old man whose small bowel was injured during placement of a Hasson trocar at the time of laparoscopic varix ligation. The literature on laparoscopic complications is reviewed, and recommendations for avoiding difficulties are outlined.
7860911	Aggravation of postcardioversion atrial dysfunction by sotalol.	OBJECTIVES. This study determined the effect of sotalol on atrial function after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation. BACKGROUND. After electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation, the Doppler mitral A wave is often diminished, representing impaired atrial contractile function. Sotalol is an effective atrial antiarrhythmic drug with class III and beta-adrenergic blocking properties. Although the negative inotropic effect of sotalol on the ventricle is minimal in patients with normal ventricular function, it may manifest negative inotropy when ventricular function is impaired. We postulated that after cardioversion, when intrinsic atrial function is impaired, sotalol may have an adverse effect on the atrium. METHODS. Thirty-seven patients enrolled in a randomized, double-blind study of sotalol for maintenance of sinus rhythm were studied by quantitative Doppler echocardiography within 24 h of electrical cardioversion and, for those still in sinus rhythm, again at 1 month. Doppler variables (E and A wave velocities and integrals) in patients receiving sotalol were compared with those in patients receiving placebo. RESULTS. After electrical cardioversion, peak A wave velocity and A wave time-velocity integral in the 20 patients receiving placebo were reduced compared with normal values. In the 17 patients receiving sotalol (median dose 320 mg twice daily) these variables were further reduced (mean [+/- SD] peak A wave velocity 19.4 +/- 5.5 vs. 38.4 +/- 14.7 cm/s, p &lt; 0.001 and mean A wave time-velocity integral 1.7 +/- 0.6 vs. 3.4 +/- 1.4 cm, p &lt; 0.001, in sotalol- vs. placebo-treated patients, respectively). Early diastolic filling (E wave variables) did not differ between sotalol- and placebo-treated groups. At 1 month, five sotalol- and six placebo-treated patients remained in sinus rhythm, and A wave variables had increased for the whole group, with a greater increase in sotalol-treated patients. CONCLUSIONS. After electrical cardioversion, when atrial stunning is prominent, sotalol has a negative atrial inotropic effect. This effect may be temporary, as suggested by resolution at 1 month. Negative inotropic effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on the atrium should be considered in assessing Doppler variables of left ventricular filling.
7868203	Seidel interlocking nailing for healing problems in humeral shaft fractures.	In 14 patients aged 38 to 87 years humeral shaft fractures were operated on for failure of reduction, for delayed healing or for established non-union with the Seidel interlocking nail system. In five patients intraoperative technical problems were encountered. The healing rate was eight out of 12 patients. In cases of pseudarthrosis of the humeral shaft, bone grafting or local osteosynthesis in addition to medullary nailing seem advisable. The distal interlocking mechanism of the Seidel nail should be improved.
7870431	[Preliminary results of otoacoustic emission measurement and standard values in young subjects with normal hearing. Part II. Measurement of effects of acoustic distortion]	The paper discusses the results of DPOAE measurement in 44 young subjects with normal hearing capacity. The measurements were carried out separately for each ear (88 measurements altogether). Otoacoustic responses to continuous two-tone stimulation (f1 and f2) with an intensity range of 46-71 dB SPL were recorded. Mean DPOAE values from 2f1-f2 measurement for the right ear in males and females varied from 2.6 +/- 5.6 to1 5.4 +/- 6.9 (within the range 0.7-6.0 kHz). For the left ear the respective values were 3.9 +/- 4.7 to 19.1 +/- 4.0. In most of subjects an increase in DPOAE values for frequencies higher than 3 kHz was found, which is characteristic of middle ear emission. The statistical analysis of DPOAE measurements in males and females did not reveal significant differences except for a few parameters. In both sexes the intensity of f1 and f2 stimuli at the frequency of 1.5 kHz was found to be significantly different at p = 0.48. The results of DPOAE measurements can be regarded as a statistical probability of standard. In view of the lack of approved calibration standards, the data obtained from the study will be considered a local set of standard values and will be used for clinical interpretation of pathological cases.
7896862	Flexion relaxation during lifting: implications for torque production by muscle activity and tissue strain at the lumbo-sacral joint.	During the full flexion phase of the back lift movement the lumbar part of the erector spinae muscle exhibits a reduced activity level (flexion relaxation). This study addresses the question how the required extension torque in the lumbo-sacral joint (L5/S1 joint) is balanced during the period in which apparently the lumbar erector spinae ceases to take its share. Six subjects participated in the experiment in which they performed seven lifting tasks. The load, the range of movement, and the phase in which the load was handled (lifting or lowering) were varied. A dynamic linked segment model was applied to determine the momentary torques acting at the L5/S1 joint, while the EMGs of the lumbar and thoracic part of the erector spinae muscle were measured. Furthermore, the lengths between markers on the lumbar and thoracic part of the trunk were determined to reveal changes in length during the movement. The dynamic EMGs were normalized to trunk angle-dependent maximal levels. The L5/S1 joint torques were analysed and combined with the normalized EMG data and the kinematics of the trunk, which are assumed to indicate the elongation of passive tissues. Although in the normalization procedure the change of the length-force relationship of the erector spinae was taken into account, the dynamic lumbar EMG activity decreased to a low-activity level (the phenomenon of flexion relaxation). This coincided with a 25% increase in lumbar length suggesting that passive tissue strain provided part of the required extension torque. In the tasks where a barbell was handled a significant increase in EMG level of the thoracic part of the erector spinae occurred just before the flexion relaxation at the lumbar level. Apparently, the extensor function of the lumbar part is then taken over by the thoracic part of the erector spinae muscle. This suggests that an intricate coordinating mechanism is operative that apportions the load to be balanced over active--(lumbar and thoracic part of the erector spinae) and passive structures (post vertebral ligaments).
7906539	Influence of apraclonidine and pilocarpine alone and in combination on post laser trabeculoplasty pressure rise.	Apraclonidine and pilocarpine have been shown to be effective in reducing the incidence of intraocular pressure (IOP) spikes following argon laser trabeculoplasty. An additional reduction in the incidence of acute pressure rise might theoretically be expected by combining these two effective agents. In a prospective randomised study we compared the ability of apraclonidine and pilocarpine alone and in combination to prevent post laser pressure spikes. Patients receiving regular pilocarpine to either eye were excluded. Seventy five eyes received either apraclonidine (26 eyes), pilocarpine (23 eyes), or both drugs (26 eyes). Apraclonidine 1% was instilled 1 hour before and immediately after, and pilocarpine 4% immediately after trabeculoplasty. IOP was measured before and at 1, 2, and 3 hours following trabeculoplasty. In only two (8%) eyes receiving combined treatment was a pressure rise observed. This frequency was significantly lower than that seen in eyes treated with apraclonidine alone (38%), or pilocarpine alone (39%). The mean fall in IOP at 1, 2, and 3 hours was significantly greater in those eyes receiving combined treatment than in the other two groups.
7917637	Achieving linguistic clarity: a model to aid translations.	An international validation study of selected NANDA nursing diagnoses prompted the development of a linguistic model for standardizing and operationalizing the defining characteristics. The translation of NANDA-approved defining characteristics into Portuguese illuminated problems related to the way that sentences, phrases, and words are used. Defining characteristics were reduced into the simplest linguistic components--words. In Portuguese translation, all of the major NANDA-defining characteristics were classified into two alphabetized lists as single-word phenomena/states or qualifiers. Linguistic standardization permitted similar expressions of the defining characteristics in Portuguese and English.
7924069	[Siblings with spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA 1)--diagnosis by detecting the expansion of CAG repeat on chromosome 6p]	We reported siblings with spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA 1), diagnosed by detection of the expansion of CAG repeat in SCA 1 gene on chromosome 6. They were a 55-year-old woman (patient 1) and a 51-year-old woman (patient 2). There were eleven patients among the four generations in their family. They were from Obanazawa City in Yamagata Prefecture, located in the north-west region of Japan. The mode of inheritance was autosomal dominant. We confirmed the expansions of CAG repeat in SCA 1 gene in both patients. Clinically, they showed cerebellar ataxia and pyramidal signs especially in the lower extremities. The Patient 1 showed progressive external ophthalmoplegia without nystagmus, generalized amyotrophy and choreic movement of the fingers in advanced stage. On X-ray CT scan or MRI, the brainstem and cerebellum of the patient 1 were mildly atrophic, while those of the patient 2 showed normal appearances. Olivopontocerebellar atrophy is essential histopathological feature of SCA 1. However, some cases exhibit normal appearances of the brainstem on radiological imagings, because the brainstem involvement is often mild in SCA 1 patients.
7926698	In defense of Pseudoseizure.	There continues to be disagreement over the best term for behavior that simulates an epileptic seizure. In the author's view, pseudoseizure is the most accurate of the expressions currently in use, and fears about its potentially damaging effects are unfounded. Even pseudoseizure, however, fails to convey the behavioral nature of the phenomenon in question, for it identifies what the problem is not, rather than what it is.
7935242	Setting mental health priorities: problems and possibilities.	A recent project at the Hastings Center examined the question of priority setting in the provision of mental health services. A central issue was whether those services should be prioritized independently of other health services. The answer to that question was no: they should have full parity. Even so, priority setting can be a complex venture. At the heart of any such effort will be the relationship between empirical evidence on treatment outcomes and efficacy and the political and ethical interests that legitimately bear on interpreting and using that evidence. An argument is made that a priority should be given those whose suffering and inability to function in ordinary life is most pronounced, even if the available treatment for them is comparatively less efficacious than for other conditions.
7941290	Macrolide-lincosamide resistance determinants in streptococcal species isolated from the bovine mammary gland.	Seventy one streptococci isolated from dairy cows with clinical mastitis were tested for erythromycin and lincomycin susceptibility. Ten isolates (7.1%) were resistant to erythromycin and/or lincomycin and seven were constitutive and three were inducibly resistant. Nine of the isolates hybridized with one or more of the Erm probes tested and eight isolates gave PCR products with rRNA methylase primers. The Erm determinants were transferable at frequency of 10(-5) to 10(-6) per recipient.
7943357	Involvement of actin cytoskeleton in modulation of apical K channel activity in rat collecting duct.	We have employed the patch-clamp technique to investigate the role of the actin cytoskeleton in the modulation of the low-conductance K+ channel in the apical membrane of the rat cortical collecting duct (CCD). This K+ channel is inactivated by application of cytochalasin B or D, both compounds known to disrupt actin filaments. The effect of both cytochalasins, B and D, was fully reversible in cell-attached patches, but channel activity could not be fully restored in excised membrane patches. The effect of cytochalasins on channel activity was specific and resulted from depolymerization of the actin cytoskeleton, since application of 10 microM chaetoglobosin C, a cytochalasin analogue that does not depolymerize the actin filaments, had no effect on channel activity in inside-out patches. Addition of either actin monomers or of the polymerizing actin filaments in inside-out patches to the cytosolic medium had no effect on channel activity. This suggests that cytochalasin B- or D-induced inactivation of apical K+ channels is not caused by obstruction of the channel pore by actin. We also observed that channel inhibition by cytochalasin B or D could be blocked by pretreatment with 5 microM phalloidin, a compound that stabilizes actin filaments. We conclude that apical K+ channel activity depends critically on the integrity of the actin cytoskeleton.
7944097	[The measurement of &quot;coping&quot;. French translation and validation of the Vitaliano's scale (Vitaliano et al. 1985)]	Coping is currently defined as &quot;the various cognitive or behavioral efforts intended to master or tolerate the internal or external demands which threaten or go beyond the resources of a subject &quot;(Lazarus &amp; Folkman, 1984). The general objective of this work was to present the french version of a coping scale (Vitaliano et al., 1985) for the assessment of the different types of coping strategies which one can use when confronting an adversive event. Our population is composed of 501 adults (329 female and 172 males) of the age of 20 to 35 years. A Principal Component Analysis gave us a general factor of coping (12% V.T.) which gathers emotional focused strategies and problem focused strategies. The factorial analysis with varimax rotation confirmed the existence of 5 specific types of coping strategies. These are &quot;solving problem&quot; factor (9.4% V.T.), &quot;avoidance with wishful thinking&quot; factor (7.5% V.T.), &quot;seeks social support&quot; factor (6.5% V.T.), &quot;positive reevaluation&quot; factor (5.9% V.T.) and &quot;self-blamed&quot; (5.7% V.T.). These results allowed us to construct a valid questionnaire of 29 items measuring 5 types of coping strategies.
7947618	[Merkel cell carcinoma of the face. Histology, clinical course and therapy in six cases]	Six patients suffering from Merkel cell carcinoma of the face are described. A reliable confirmation and differential diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma have become possible with the aid of immunohistochemistry. There is a poor prognosis for patients affected by this tumour. Three out of the six cases described died within two years, two of them with distant metastases, one with a widespread local recurrence. Optimal treatment of Merkel cell carcinoma consists in early radical resection, perhaps combined with radiotherapy.
7955039	Class-specific immunoadsorption purification for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-DNA adducts.	An immunoenrichment procedure has been developed for applications in the detection and identification of a broad range of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-DNA adducts at very low abundance. The procedures are based on a monoclonal antibody raised to r-7,trans-8,trans-9-trihydroxy-cis-10-(N2-deoxyguanosyl-5'-phospha te)- 7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (anti-BPDE-N2-dG) which has been tested for cross-reactivity towards DNA and proteins (bovine serum albumin, chicken gamma globulin and human globin) covalently modified with a range of PAH diol-epoxides. The antibody recognised DNA adducted with the diol-epoxides of benzo[a]pyrene, benz[a]anthracene, chrysene, dibenz[a,h]anthracene or picene. The antibody also cross-reacted with the 7,8,9,10-tetraol derived from benzo[a]pyrene and the 1,2,3,4-tetraols of benz[a]anthracene and chrysene. The degree of cross-reactivity was greatest for PAH adducts with structural features similar to anti-BPDE-N2-dG proximate to the base attachment. The antibody also recognised a range of PAHs adducted to human globin; these included adducts of benzo[a]pyrene, benz[a]anthracene and chrysene diol-epoxides. This wide range of recognition provides good evidence for the class-specific recognition of PAH adducts by the antibody. When immobilized on Sepharose 4B and used in the immunoadsorption purification of adducted nucleotides, the antibody selectively enriched adducts of benzo[a]pyrene, benz[a]anthracene and chrysene from normal nucleotides. Quantitative measurements with [14C]benzo[a]pyrene-DNA adducts showed that the immobilized antibody was able to enrich benzo[a]pyrene adducts from a DNA hydrolysate containing adducts at a level of 1 adduct/10(10) normal nucleotides. In addition, this immunoadsorption technique was effective in enriching a mixture of DNA adducts formed in the skin of CF1 mice treated cutaneously with a mixture of [3H]benzo[a]pyrene and [3H]chrysene. Class-specific immunoenrichment procedures for DNA adducts are important in assisting the identification of genotoxic components in complex mixtures. The performance characteristics of this immobilized antibody suggest that it may be suitable for application in the detection, identification and monitoring of human exposures to low levels of PAHs.
7967617	The evolution of virulence in parasites and pathogens: reconciliation between two competing hypotheses.	According to conventional wisdom, parasites and pathogens should evolve reduced virulence to their hosts, because more virulent parasites and pathogens are more likely to drive their hosts, and themselves, to extinction. But this view has been criticized for its reliance on group selection. According to an alternative perspective, selection will favor whatever level of virulence maximizes the rate of increase of the parasite or pathogen. This optimum virulence depends on the functional relationship between a parasite or pathogen's transmissibility and its effect on host mortality, with selection often favoring an intermediate degree of virulence. The thesis of this paper is that models in which intermediate levels of virulence are favored lead quite naturally to the further conclusion that parasites and pathogens should-up to a point-become less virulent over time, once the feedbacks between ecological and evolutionary processes are incorporated into the analysis. As a consequence of successive adaptations by the parasite or pathogen, the density of susceptible hosts is reduced, thereby altering the balance between selective forces so as to favor reduced virulence. However, the evolutionarily stable strategy that is achieved is bounded away from complete avirulence. We conclude that models in which intermediate virulence is favored do not necessarily contradict the conventional wisdom in the long run; in fact, these models provide a simple mechanistic explanation for the evolution of reduced virulence.
7969038	Identification of a new genetic defect responsible for the polymorphism of (S)-mephenytoin metabolism in Japanese.	A genetic polymorphism in the metabolism of the anticonvulsant drug (S)-mephenytoin has been well documented in humans. There are marked interracial differences in the frequency of the poor metabolizer phenotype, which comprises 2-5% of Caucasian but 18-23% of Asian populations. We have recently reported that the principal genetic defect responsible for the poor metabolizer phenotype is a single-base pair mutation in exon 5 of CYP2C19 (CYP2C19m), which accounts for approximately 75-83% of the defective alleles in both Japanese and Caucasians subjects. In the present study, we have identified a new mutation (CYP2C19m2) in Japanese poor metabolizers, consisting of a guanine to adenine mutation at position 636 of exon 4 of CYP2C19, which creates a premature stop codon. Genotyping of seven Japanese poor metabolizers who were not homozygous for the previously described CYP2C19m defect (now designated CYP2C19m1) indicated that they were either homozygous for the new defect (CYP2C19m2/CYP2C19m2) or heterozygous (CYP2C19m1/CYP2C19m2) for the two defects. CYP2C19m1 accounts for 25 of 34 alleles in Japanese poor metabolizers, whereas CYP2C19m2 accounts for the remaining nine alleles. Hence, CYP2C19m1 and CYP2C19m2 explain 100% of the available Japanese poor metabolizers (34 alleles). In contrast, the CYP2C19m2 defect was not detected in nine Caucasian poor metabolizers (83% of available poor metabolizer alleles were CYP2C19m1), indicating the existence of another, as yet unidentified, mutation. Genetic testing of the families of two Japanese poor metabolizer probands showed that coinheritance of the CYP2C19m1 and CYP2C19m2 alleles was concordant with the autosomal recessive inheritance of the poor metabolizer phenotype.
7973749	[Intramedullary pressure in the femur during boring and nailing with modern compression interlocking nails--risk of fat embolism?]	Fat embolism syndrome occurs in only 0.9-4% of patients with long bone fractures and especially with intramedullary nailing. Earlier publications have shown that intramedullary manipulation, e.g. reaming and nailing, can produce high pressures of up to 1 bar. The design of the new non-slotted interlocking compressions nails seems to increase the pressure in the femoral cavity. We measured the intramedullary pressure during reaming of the marrow cavity and insertion of compression nails (OSTEO), using cadaver femora and a piezo pressure transducer. We simulated a proximal fracture and performed 30 drilling and 20 nailing procedures. On average we detected a maximum pressure of 0.26 bar during drilling and 0.63 bar during nailing. During reaming the pressure increased when the reamer had passed the narrow diaphysis and reached the metaphysis. When the tried to enlarge the femoral canal by pushing and pulling the reamer repeatedly we measured high pressure peaks. During nailing we detected short impulses lasting a few milliseconds. The results show that the new compression nail do not produce higher intramedullary pressure than slotted nails. It is possible to avoid a dangerous pressure level by using a careful operative technique.
7976154	Traumatic or septic aortic regurgitation: diagnosis by oesophageal echocardiography.	Severe aortic regurgitation was discovered in a young man 21 days after blunt chest trauma and after a prolonged febrile state with positive blood cultures. Using transoesophageal echocardiography (TEE), it was possible to make the differential diagnosis between traumatic rupture and endocarditis as the cause of valvular insufficiency. The use of TEE in the initial evaluation of severe thoracic trauma with an unclear clinical picture is recommended. This method is easy to use at the bedside and gives precise information on the aortic valve and the ascending aorta.
7979355	Learning needs of hospitalized women at risk for preterm birth.	In this descriptive study, the priority learning needs of hospitalized women at risk of preterm birth were examined. A convenience sample of 34 pregnant women completed the Preterm Birth Learning Needs Questionnaire (PBLNQ). Respondents rated 18 teaching topics on a continuum from &quot;not very important to know&quot; to &quot;very important to know.&quot; The topics rated as most important were the consequences of prematurity for the baby and problems of the newborn associated with preterm birth. Responses to open-ended questions validated mothers' overwhelming concerns for the welfare of their unborn children. The emotional crisis precipitated by hospitalization for possible preterm delivery changes the focus of teaching for those at risk of preterm birth and presents a particular challenge to those providing patient education.
7979965	Border disease virus: delineation by monoclonal antibodies.	Many ovine pestiviruses from Britain and a number of atypical porcine isolates are largely unrecognised by monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) specific for reference strains of classical swine fever virus and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Additional mAbs have therefore been produced using some of these &quot;unreactive&quot; pestiviruses. Two of the viruses used were atypical porcine isolates (strains 87/6 and Vosges), whilst another had been isolated from a sheep (59386). Thirty-three mAbs were selected, none of which recognised two reference strains of BVDV, but three of which recognised the Alfort strain of classical swine fever. On the basis of radioimmunoprecipitation they were considered to be directed at one of three different pestivirus proteins (gp 53, gp 48 or p 125). Three virus subgroups were evident when the mAbs were used to type 16 ovine and two atypical porcine pestiviruses. One subgroup contained the Vosges and 59386 viruses and four ovine field isolates. The second subgroup comprised the 87/6 virus, the Moredun and Aveyron reference strains of border disease virus and four further ovine field isolates. Three of four ovine viruses making up the third subgroup had been previously categorised as BVDV-like and were largely unrecognised by the new mAbs. The findings were in agreement with previous attempts to segregate some of the same viruses using partial genomic comparisons or cross-neutralization tests.
7990489	Hypoglycaemic effect of Artemisia herba alba. II. Effect of a valuable extract on some blood parameters in diabetic animals.	Artemisia herba alba is widely used in Iraqi folk medicine for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. However, very few scientific and medical studies were carried out to assess the efficacy and toxicity of A. herba alba. In this study feeding diabetic rats and rabbits with 0.39 g/kg body weight of the aqueous extract of the aerial parts of the plant for 2-4 weeks shows a significant reduction in blood glucose level, prevents elevation of glycosylated haemoglobin level and possesses a hypoliposis effect, in addition to the protection against body weight loss of diabetic animals.
7992624	[Synthesis of tyrosine-related peptide and their effect on progesterone production]	Twenty peptides containing hydroxy-amino acids have been synthesized manually by stepwise solid-phase procedure. The chloromethyl resin and MBHA resin were used as solid supports. A new reagent of 0.5 mol.L-1 DDSi/1.5 mol.L-1 phenol/DCM was applied for the removal of N alpha-Boc group. TFMSA was the cleaving reagent. After purification by C-18 column; all products were assayed according to amino acid analysis. The bioactivity of synthetic peptides was tested for the effect on progesterone production in vitro. Eight peptides, GlyTyrAlaLys, (SarSer)2Lys and its methyl ester, TyrLys, HisTyr-NH2, ThrProTyrLys-NH2 TyrThrProArgLys and AspHisProThrPheLys showed significant effect on inhibiting hCG-induced progesterone production, and first three of them could also inhibit basal progesterone secretion. However, peptide GlySerTyr exhibited stimulative activity on basal progesterone secretion. So far, no reasonable relationship between structure and bioactivity was found.
7995471	The effect of esthetic fibers on the flow properties of an acrylic resin denture base material.	OBJECTIVES. This study was conducted to measure the effect of viscose rayon esthetic fibers on the flow properties of an acrylic resin denture base material. METHODS. Two testing methods using a needle penetrometer and an oscillating rheometer were employed on weighed proportions (0.1%, 0.2%, 0.8%, and 0.3%) of fiber. RESULTS. The results show that the fibers affect the flow properties of the polymer/monomer mix. Increasing the percentage of fibers decreases the flow of the material and reduces the doughing time. With increasing amounts of fiber, a rapid increase in the viscosity occurs with a corresponding adverse effect on flow properties. SIGNIFICANCE. It is concluded that these properties are important for the successful handling of acrylic materials since they can influence the accuracy and quality of the molded denture.
7996624	The validity of tuning fork tests in diagnosing hearing loss.	Tuning fork tests are subjective and response bias must be accounted for when determining their validity as diagnostic tools. A significant proportion of patients who present for otologic evaluation have mixed hearing loss and it is important to know how this group responds to tuning fork testing. The need for masking in audiometry is indisputable but its role in tuning fork testing has never been established. The purpose of this study was to determine the sensitivity of tuning fork tests. The Weber, unmasked and masked Rinne, and Bing tests were administered in a prospective, random, and blind manner to 68 patients referred for audiologic assessment. Patients found to have normal hearing served as the control group. Signal Detection Theory was used to compare the results to pure-tone air- and bone-conduction audiometry. Overall the Rinne is an unbiased test with a sensitivity of 0.84 regardless of the type, severity, or frequency of hearing loss. This is not improved by masking. There is no role for either the Weber or Bing as independent tests. Mixed hearing loss behaves as conductive hearing loss. The Rinne without masking should be administered to patients suspected of having a hearing loss.
8009178	Implanted solid human tumours grow under the renal capsule of cyclosporin-immunosuppressed rats.	Cyclosporin (CsA) is a potent immunosuppressive drug widely used in organ transplantation. We transplanted fresh surgical samples from human solid malignant tumours into 45 CsA-immunosuppressed rats. Eight out of nine tumour types grew and remained viable for 5 weeks or more in at least two of the transplanted rats. In 29 rats (64%) a distinct growth of primary human tumours was recorded. Five malignancies (intestinal-type gastric carcinoma, adenocarcinoma of the lung, lymph node metastasis of a testicular teratocarcinoma, soft tissue malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH), and small-cell sarcoma) showed invasive and progressive growth. In all five cases the largest tumours were 0.9 cm or over in diameter when the rats were killed 5-9 weeks after transplantation. In three cases (adenocarcinoma of the colon, hypernephroma, and a second MFH) the growth of the implants under the kidney capsule was slow, but small living tumour transplants were still found 3-6 weeks later. In every case the microscopic morphology of the xenograft tumour was identical with the original tumour. In two cases the primary xenografts (teratocarcinoma and small-cell sarcoma) were retransplanted into 11 CsA-immunosuppressed rats. In both types the second passage tumours grew, and the take-off and growth rates were comparable to the primary xenografts. Cyclosporin-treated laboratory rats are an alternative to immunodeficient nude and SCID mice for growing fresh human tumour transplants in vivo. Although a few infections were encountered, most of the rats survived the CsA treatment well for up to 2 months.
8011580	Effects of ON channel blockade with 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (APB) on brightness and contrast perception in monkeys.	Four experiments were performed to assess the effects of ON channel blockade with the glutamate analog 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (APB) on brightness and contrast perception in monkeys. In Experiment 1, we demonstrate that stimuli brighter than background (incremental stimuli) appear less bright following ON channel blockade. This decrease in brightness is not enough to account for the previously observed threshold increase for detection of incremental stimuli following APB administration (Schiller et al., 1986; Dolan &amp; Schiller, 1989). Experiment 2 examines the role of the ON and OFF channels in the interaction between local contrast and apparent brightness. The phenomenon of simultaneous contrast was examined under normal conditions and following APB administration. We find that even following ON channel blockade, the brightness of a stimulus is determined primarily by its contrast with its immediate background. This indicates that the lateral processes involved in simultaneous contrast can operate even when one channel has been compromised. In Experiment 3, we examined the role of the ON channel in detection of stimuli that appear by virtue of changes in background vs. foreground luminance. We find that the ON channel selectively conveys information pertaining not only to the temporal nature that defines the stimulus as incremental but also to the spatial features that define it as incremental. In Experiment 4, we test the hypothesis that incremental and decremental temporal luminance ramps are differentially processed by the ON and OFF channels to a higher degree than are step-luminance changes. We find that the detection of incremental ramps is no more affected than is the detection of incremental steps following APB administration.
8013915	A yeast artificial chromosome clone map of the Drosophila genome.	We describe the mapping of 979 randomly selected large yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) clones of Drosophila DNA by in situ hybridization to polytene chromosomes. Eight hundred and fifty-five of the clones are euchromatic and have primary hybridization sites in the banded portions of the polytene chromosomes, whereas 124 are heterochromatic and label the chromocenter. The average euchromatic clone contains about 211 kb and, at its primary site, labels eight or nine contiguous polytene bands. Thus, the extent as well as chromosomal position of each clone has been determined. By direct band counts, we estimate our clones provide about 76% coverage of the euchromatin of the major autosomes, and 63% coverage of the X. When previously reported YAC mapping data are combined with ours, euchromatic coverage is extended to about 90% for the autosomes and 82% for the X. The distribution of gap sizes in our map and the coverage achieved are in good agreement with expectations based on the assumption of random coverage, indicating that euchromatic clones are essentially randomly distributed. However, certain gaps in coverage, including the entire fourth chromosome euchromatin, may be significant. Heterochromatic sequences are underrepresented among the YAC clones by two to three fold. This may result, at least in part, from underrepresentation of heterochromatic sequences in adult DNA (the source of most of the clones analyzed), or from clone instability.
8023422	Role of ultrasonic cleaning in control of cross-infection in dentistry.	The dye/paper method of mapping ultrasound fields has been used to demonstrate the non-uniform distribution of energy density and cavitational activity in an ultrasonic cleaning bath. It is also shown that removal of a layer of artificial contaminant from a surface proceeds at rates which vary considerably with position because of standing waves set up by reflections in the walls of the bath and at the liquid surface. In view of the use of such baths as part of the process of controlling cross-infection in dentistry, it is suggested that manual cleaning of reusable instruments may be necessary as well.
8023423	Automated method for characterization of diastolic transmitral Doppler velocity contours: early rapid filling.	Doppler echocardiographic studies of transmitral flow have become a routine clinical tool for the assessment and characterization of ventricular diastolic (filling) function. We have previously derived a parametrized diastolic filling (PDF) formalism for the purpose of diastolic function assessment using Doppler echocardiography. The model accommodates the mechanical &quot;suction&quot; feature of early diastolic filling of the heart by using a simple harmonic oscillator (SHO) as a paradigm for the kinematics of filling. PDF model predictions of transmitral flow velocity have shown excellent agreement with human echocardiographic Doppler contours (temporal profiles) when a visual, transparency overlay method of model fit to clinical Doppler contour comparison was used. The determination of PDF model parameters from the clinical Doppler contour is equivalent to the solution of the &quot;inverse problem&quot; of diastole. Previously, this determination consisted of a manual, iterative method of graphical overlay, in which model predicted contours were visually compared with the echocardiography machine generated Doppler contour using transparencies. To automate the process of model parameter estimation (i.e., solution of the &quot;inverse problem&quot;) for the early or &quot;rapid filling&quot; phase of diastole (known in cardiology as the E-wave of the clinical Doppler velocity profile [DVP]) we recorded the acoustic pulsed Doppler signal using the forward channel of a commercial echocardiography machine. The Doppler spectrogram for a particular E-wave was recreated using short-time Fourier transform processing. The maximum velocity envelope (MVE) was extracted from the spectrogram. The PDF model was fit to the E-wave MVE using a Levenberg-Marquardt (iterative) algorithm by the requirement that the mean-square error between the clinical data (MVE) and the model be minimized. Because the model is linear, all of the PDF parameters for the Doppler E-wave can be uniquely determined. We show that: (1) solution of the &quot;inverse problem of diastole&quot; is possible; (2) clinical Doppler E-wave contours can be accurately reproduced and quantified using the PDF formalism and its parameters; and (3) our proposed, automated method of PDF parameter determination for the E-wave is robust.
8032495	Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography of the stereoisomers of some sweetener peptides with a helical nickel(II) chelate in the mobile phase.	The use of a chiral mobile phase additive in the form of the helically distorted, square-planar, chiral nickel(II) chelate dl-[4,4'-(1-methyl-2-propylethane-1,2-diyldiimino)bis(pent-3 -en-2- onato)]nickel(II) was investigated for the resolution of optical isomers of dipeptide-type sweeteners, viz., aspartame, alitame and antiaspartame, and some of their decomposition products, e.g., diketopiperazines. The chiral discrimination mechanism for the solutes was elucidated. The proposed chiral RP-HPLC system was applied to the stereoselective determination of aspartame impurities in samples of its commercial dietetic and pharmaceutical formulations.
8033971	Diurnal variation of hue discriminatory capability under artificial constant illumination.	Diurnal variation of hue discriminatory capability under artificial constant illumination of 4000 lux was studied with 10 young female adults using the 100-hue test. There were conspicuous diurnal variations in the yellow-blue and red-green systems, with marked reductions of error score in the evening. However, observations of the blue, yellow, green and red systems separately disclosed that there existed clear diurnal rhythms in the blue and green systems, but not in the yellow and red systems. This suggests the existence of diurnal variation in function of the S and M cones responsible for the blue and green hue.
8048121	[The removal of dental deposits in the prevention of periodontal diseases]	A total of 174 subjects aged 18 to 24 were examined using the Greene-Vermillion index of dental deposit for the assessment of the oral cavity hygienic status. The intensity of chronic gingivitis was assessed using the PMA index modified by Parma. In all the patients dental deposit was removed using cotton cones formed on fine conical fissure bores fixed in angular tips. Phosphate cement powder was used as a abrasion material. In a month the patients were examined repeatedly. One session of a professional removal of the dental deposit was found sufficient to reduce the dental deposit index and the intensity of chronic gingivitis, this permitting a conclusion on the efficacy of this preventive method and recommending it for practice.
8049613	Race-related red cell alloantibody problems.	Some years ago differences in red cell blood group phenotypes among individuals of different ethnic backgrounds were of little moment to blood transfusion services. This was because in many instances the ethnic group of the majority of patients closely matched that of the donor pool. The dramatic population movements of the last 20-30 years have changed this situation. Now it is not uncommon for a transfusion service whose donors are primarily European Caucasian in ancestry to be required to supply blood for patients, a substantial proportion of whom are of Black or Oriental extraction. This problem affects the donor service in terms of supply and demand, and both the donor service and hospital transfusion service in terms of antibody identification. In this paper some aspects of this problem are explored and illustrations are given of how knowledge of an antibody-maker's ethnic background can sometimes be used to accelerate identification of an antibody, particularly one directed against a very common antigen. The effects of differences in antigen frequency are also considered in terms of long-term transfusion support of some patients.
8049847	Fiberoptic bronchoscopy in brain-dead organ donors.	Criteria for selecting lung donors include normal chest X-ray and adequate gas exchange, but normal bronchoscopy is not always required. Thus, we conducted a prospective study of fiberoptic bronchoscopy in 72 brain-dead donors scheduled for multiple organ procurement. Chest X-ray was considered normal in 37 donors (51%), and PaO2 was > 400 mm Hg with an FIO2 of 100% in 34 donors (47%). Fiberoptic bronchoscopy was normal in only 24 donors (33%). In the remaining 48 donors, inhalation of gastric contents (n = 26) or blood (n = 17), pulmonary contusion (n = 5), or purulent bronchial secretions (n = 4) were noted. In the 26 donors with normal chest X-ray and PaO2 > 400 mm Hg with FIO2 of 100%, bronchoscopy was abnormal in 10 donors (38%). In 33 donors, arteriovenous difference in oxygen content (2.4 +/- 0.8 ml O2/100 ml), and pulmonary shunt (0.30 +/- 0.11, range 0.13-0.49) were measured. In the 15 donors with PaO2 > 400 mm Hg, pulmonary shunt was 0.23 +/- 0.07 (range 0.13-0.35). Our study suggests that chest X-ray and arterial blood gas analysis are not sufficient, and that fiberoptic bronchoscopy should be routinely performed to select potential lung donors. Even in brain-dead donors, only the measurement of pulmonary shunt can precisely assess pulmonary gas exchange.
8049922	Glasgow aneurysm score.	A clinical prognostic scoring system for patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm and audit of the sequelae of a sample population in Glasgow, are described. Randomly selected case notes of 500 patients, representing 41.6% (500 of 1202) of the total population treated in Glasgow hospitals with general surgical units (as opposed to vascular units) between 1980 and 1990, were examined for risk factors. These were then related to the operative and postoperative hospital mortality. Initial univariate analysis showed the outcome to be significantly influenced by the following factors: age (P = &lt; 0.01), rupture (P = &lt; 0.001), shock (P = &lt; 0.001), myocardial disease (P = 0.08), cerebrovascular disease (P = 0.03), renal disease (P = 0.03) and size of the aneurysm (P = 0.06). Using multivariate analysis, the following independent risk factors were identified: age (P = 0.02), shock (P = &lt; 0.001), myocardial disease (P = 0.02), cerebrovascular disease (P = 0.02) and renal disease (P = 0.003). Rounding of the regression coefficients created a simple risk score: risk score = (age in years)+(17 for shock)+(7 for myocardial disease)+(10 for cerebrovascular disease)+(14 for renal disease). Subsequent evaluation of the scoring system showed that the mortality rate increases in proportion to the score. Other findings are analysed and discussed.
8055414	A staged-based approach to helping people change health behaviors.	Helping people change health-related behavior is a challenging part of CNS responsibilities. Behavior change is a cyclic phenomena where people progress through the typical stages of precontemplation, contemplation, preparation, action, maintenance, and, if not successful in changing behavior, relapse. Several interventions are available to assist people with health behavior change, in addition to the typical education that CNSs provide. Appropriate nursing interventions for each change stage that assist people to change health behaviors successfully are described in this article.
8066445	Disparate rates of molecular evolution in cospeciating hosts and parasites.	DNA sequences for the gene encoding mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I in a group of rodents (pocket gophers) and their ectoparasites (chewing lice) provide evidence for cospeciation and reveal different rates of molecular evolution in the hosts and their parasites. The overall rate of nucleotide substitution (both silent and replacement changes) is approximately three times higher in lice, and the rate of synonymous substitution (based on analysis of fourfold degenerate sites) is approximately an order of magnitude greater in lice. The difference in synonymous substitution rate between lice and gophers correlates with a difference of similar magnitude in generation times.
8069358	The areas of language: critical analysis.	To determine the degree of linguistic maturity of a child, a series of areas that are usually formally tested in the assessment of language were analyzed. Specifically, an individual test of the assessment of language was applied to a sample of 204 children of Granada (Spain) ranging in age from 2.6 to 6.6 years. This test consists of six areas: comprehension, memory, fluency, vocabulary, knowledge, and judgement and intelligence. A factorial analysis of the data was carried out to check the classification of the above-mentioned areas. It is found that in the three following factors the analyzed variables get saturated: 'learned behaviors', 'behaviors which are being learned' and 'memory'.
8070424	Cushing's syndrome and hypertension.	Cushing's syndrome refers to the signs and symptoms that result from excessive glucocorticoid action, usually from endogenous production or exogenous administration. This article reviews the pathophysiology of hypertension in Cushing's syndrome and current concepts in the diagnosis and treatment of this disorder.
8071942	Benzimidazole ribonucleosides: design, synthesis, and antiviral activity of certain 2-(alkylthio)- and 2-(benzylthio)-5,6-dichloro-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)benzimidazoles.	Several 2-alkylthio- and 2-benzylthio derivatives of 5,6-dichloro-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)benzimidazole (DRB) have been designed and synthesized from 5,6-dichloro-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-benzimidazole-2-thione. All compounds were evaluated for activity against human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and/or herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1). Three different cytotoxicity assays were used to determine if the compounds were toxic to uninfected cells. Most of the 2-alkylthio compounds were either inactive against HCMV and HSV-1 or were active only at concentrations at or near those which produced toxicity in uninfected cells. The best separation between activity against HCMV and cytotoxicity was observed with the 2-benzylthio analog 7. This prompted us to synthesize the substituted 2-benzylthio analogs 11-23 using a Topliss Tree approach. None of these compounds were more active than compound 7; most of the analogs were weakly active against both HCMV and HSV-1, but the activity was not separated from cytotoxicity. On the basis of both antiviral and cytotoxicity data, compound 7 was the best compound in the series. It was more active against HCMV than DRB (the 2-unsubstituted analog), acyclovir, and foscarnet, but it was less active than ganciclovir.
8074367	Vulvar reconstruction using a mons pubis flap.	A mons pubis flap was used to reconstruct vulvar defects in 4 patients. This is an axial-pattern flap based on the superficial external pudendal vessels. Our cadaver injection studies demonstrated the vascular anatomy of the flap, which encompasses both a primary and a secondary vascular territory. Four patients were reconstructed, with excellent cosmetic results. The flap provides pliable, hair-bearing skin that resembles the normal vulva. The donor defect is inconspicuous and well hidden in the pubic hair. The flap is a reconstructive option for appropriate patients with full-thickness vulvar defects.
8077369	Effects of finasteride, a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor, on circulating androgens and gonadotropin secretion in hirsute women.	An oral 5-mg dose of finasteride, a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor, was administered for 3 months to 10 hirsute women to determine the effect on gonadotropin secretion, on basal and stimulated androgen secretion, and on hair growth. Hair growth was assessed by the Ferriman-Gallwey score. All of the above determinations were evaluated before and after 1 and/or 3 months of finasteride treatment. Basal and GnRH-stimulated gonadotropin secretions were not affected. Indeed, finasteride did not modify the pulsatility of LH secretion. No change was seen in estradiol, PRL, free testosterone, androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, and sex hormone-binding globulin concentrations. Serum concentrations of cortisol (F) were significantly reduced after 1 month of finasteride treatment. The F levels returned to pretreatment levels after 3 months. Plasma levels of dihydrotestosterone and 3 alpha-androstanediol glucuronide significantly decreased during finasteride treatment. A significant increase in testosterone concentrations was observed after 3 months. Finasteride did not modify the responses of testosterone, androstenedione, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate to ACTH-(1-24) injection. Conversely, finasteride blunted the F response to corticotropin stimulation. Three months of finasteride treatment significantly decreased the Ferriman-Gallwey score. In conclusion, finasteride significantly decreased dihydrotestosterone and hair growth in hirsute women without negatively affecting gonadotropin secretion.
8079328	[Information for planning and comparison in municipalities. Use of data from the EDP medical records in general practice]	There is a lack of systematic data on primary care which can be used for purposes of planning and evaluation. Ordinary data from computer-based journals in general practice were collected in four municipalities. 25 general practitioners participated for four months in 1992. The validity and reliability of the data have been investigated. The computer-based journal provides accurate information on the number and kind of contacts, and on who uses the primary health services. It also tells the nature of each contact, whether it leads to a referral, a prescription or a laboratory test. It does not give exact data on illness rates in the population, but there is a relatively stable relationship between illness and the number of contacts in general practice. This makes it possible to compare the diagnoses made in different areas. The data from the computer-based journal is also a convenient way of comparing effectiveness and costs in general practice.
8087909	Sugarless gum chewing before surgery does not increase gastric fluid volume or acidity.	Patients occasionally arrive in the operating suite chewing gum despite instructions to avoid oral intake for a specific number of hours before surgery. Some anaesthetists are hesitant to proceed with these patients fearing an increase in gastric volume and acidity. This study was undertaken to determine if gum chewing increased gastric volume and acidity. Seventy seven patients were recruited and informed consent obtained. Thirty-one patients who fasted overnight were randomly assigned either to serve as control (Group 1) or to chew sugarless gum prior to anaesthesia (Group 2). The remaining 46 patients fasted overnight but were given sugarless gum and allowed to chew it until immediately before induction of anaesthesia if they desired (Group 3). Volume and pH of gastric content were determined immediately after induction of anaesthesia and tracheal intubation. Results revealed mean values (range) of gastric volume for Group 1-26 ml (9-60), Group 2-40 ml (5-93), and Group 3-28 ml (4-65). Mean values for pH (range) were Group 1-1.8 (1.0-4.6), Group 2-1.6 (1.3-1.9), Group 3-1.7 (1.0-4.4). There was no difference between groups in terms of gastric volume or pH. In addition, there was no relationship between gastric content and the length of time from gum discard to induction or the length of time gum was chewed. In conclusion, the data suggest that induction of anaesthesia is safe and surgery does not need to be delayed if a patient arrives in the OR chewing sugarless gum.
8104656	Sulphasalazine in the management of psoriatic arthritis.	There are few 'second-line' drugs available for the treatment of PSA and their use is often limited by toxicity. Thirty-nine patients with active PSA recruited from two rheumatology units were randomly allocated to either enteric-coated sulphasalazine (SASP) or placebo and followed for 24 wk. Six patients in the SASP group and 11 on placebo discontinued therapy before 24 wk. Evaluation of effect of treatment revealed significant improvements in articular index in both groups at 12 wk. By 24 wk the articular index in placebo group was still showing benefit. In addition to articular index the SASP group improved significantly in terms of visual analogue scale, duration of morning stiffness and ESR. SASP is effective in PSA but the partial clinical response to placebo indicates the importance of placebo-controlled studies in this variable disease.
8105698	Inhibition by epinephrine of AVP- and cAMP-stimulated Na+ and water transport in Dahl rat CCD.	We examined the effects of epinephrine in perfused cortical collecting ducts (CCD) isolated from inbred Dahl-Rapp salt-sensitive (SS) and salt-resistant (SR) rats and from Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Rats were treated with 2.5 mg deoxycorticosterone pivalate (DOC; depot injection 4-9 days before study), and the CCD were treated with 220 pM vasopressin (AVP) to maximize Na+ transport. In CCD from all three strains 10 microM epinephrine in the bathing solution completely inhibited net Na+ transport, osmotic water permeability (Pf), and transepithelial voltage. In the SS CCD, epinephrine increased the fractional resistance of the luminal membrane to the same extent as 10 microM amiloride, indicating that it blocked the amiloride-sensitive conductance of the luminal membrane. Even at 100 nM epinephrine inhibited 80-100% of Na+ and water transport, and 1 microM yohimbine reversed or prevented these effects. In SS CCD, 0.1 mM 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-BrcAMP) plus 0.1 mM 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine in place of AVP increased lumen-to-bath Na+ flux (J1-->b) from 56 +/- 5 to 143 +/- 3 pmol.min-1 x mm-1 and Pf from 6 +/- 12 to 1067 +/- 152 microns/s, but 100 mM epinephrine still significantly inhibited cAMP-stimulated J1-->b and Pf by 40 +/- 5% and 31 +/- 9%, respectively. Similar results were observed in the SR and SD rat CCD; however, the ability of yohimbine to reverse the epinephrine effect on cAMP-dependent transport was variable among the rat strains. We conclude that epinephrine acts via an alpha 2-receptor to inhibit adenylate cyclase but that at least one additional intracellular second messenger system may be involved.
8119064	Parametric extrapolation of survival estimates with applications to quality of life evaluation of treatments. International Breast Cancer Study Group.	Using parametric models, a procedure for projecting survival estimates beyond the follow-up limits of a clinical trial is developed. The methodology consists of fitting an appropriate parametric model to the tail of a survival curve and using the estimated model in conjunction with the Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimate to produce a composite survival-function estimator. This estimator is especially useful whenever a parametric model is more easily fit to the tail rather than to the entire survival curve. Probability plots are used to evaluate different parametric models as well as to determine appropriate values for the cut points that define the survival-function tail. The bootstrap method provides estimates of variation in the projected survival curve. The resulting projected survival estimates allow one to make inferences on long-term treatment effects in clinical trials. As a motivating application, we project survival curves to estimate long-term treatment effects on quality-of-life-adjusted survival. This represents an extension of a statistical procedure called Q-TWiST (Quality-adjusted Time Without Symptoms of disease and Toxicity of treatment), which evaluates treatments in terms of both quantity and quality of life. In a standard Q-TWiST analysis, the average time spent in each of a number of health states, which differ in quality of life, is estimated from clinical trial data. The health states are weighted according to the quality of life experienced, and the results are combined to produce an estimate of quality-adjusted survival. Such estimates, however, are restricted to the follow-up limit of the data. The way in which the extrapolation methodology provides longer range estimates of Q-TWiST is described. To illustrate the techniques, we apply the methodology to data from the International Breast Cancer Study Group Trial V, which compares long-duration adjuvant chemotherapy versus short-duration chemotherapy in the treatment of node-positive breast cancer. Five-year median follow-up data are used to predict 10-year results in terms of mean survival and mean Q-TWiST. The results indicate that patients continue to benefit greatly from the long-duration chemotherapy between 5 and 10 years following treatment.
8119633	The multiface morphology of acute leukemia.	Three distinct morphological phases during the course of acute leukemia in a 16 year old girl are described. The patient presented with morphology of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, relapsed with acute myeloblastic leukemia which later on evolved to monoblastic phase. This clinical, morphological and ultrastructural observation provides clinical evidence supporting the current concept of normal and leukemic haematopoiesis, as well as clonal evolution, according to which a stem cell is capable of giving rise to different haematopoietic lineages. It is conceivable that chemotherapy altered the balance between the stem cells and the bone marrow microenvironmental stromal cells, resulting in clonal evolution or release of a new subclone with the disease relapse.
8119684	Influence of paraesophageal venous collaterals on efficacy of endoscopic sclerotherapy for esophageal varices.	To determine the diagnostic accuracy of computer tomography in the detection of venous collaterals surrounding the esophagus in patients with portal hypertension, preoperative computer tomography interpretations of these veins in 15 patients who were candidates for the Sugiura procedure for treatment of esophageal varices were correlated with those of the intraoperative assessment. Laparotomy revealed severe paraesophageal varices in five patients; four of them were found to have paraesophageal varices in computer tomography films. The sensitivity and specificity of computer tomography in diagnosing severe paraesophageal varices were 80% and 100%, respectively. A second assessment was performed in 59 additional patients with esophageal variceal hemorrhage to investigate the influence of paraesophageal varices on the efficacy of endoscopic sclerotherapy in the treatment of varices. The patients were divided into two groups: Group A included 17 patients with and group B 42 patients without paraesophageal varices on presclerotherapy computer tomography. All patients underwent elective sclerotherapy after being deemed hemodynamically stable. Patients in group A required more treatment sessions, more sclerosant and longer periods to obliterate varices completely than did group B patients. Eight patients in group A and six in group B (57% vs. 16%, p &lt; 0.05) had variceal recurrence after obliteration during mean follow-ups of 20.8 and 19.9 mo, respectively. The mean time elapsed before variceal reappearance was shorter for group A than for group B (4.1 +/- 3.3 vs. 11.8 +/- 2.7 mo, p &lt; 0.05). Among patients who developed new varices, five patients in group A and one in group B experienced repeat bleeding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8130544	Generating MEDLINE search strategies using a librarian knowledge-based system.	We describe a librarian knowledge-based system that generates a search strategy from a query representation based on a user's information need. Together with the natural language parser AQUA, the system functions as a human/computer interface, which translates a user query from free text into a BRS Onsite search formulation, for searching the MEDLINE bibliographic database. In the system, conceptual graphs are used to represent the user's information need. The UMLS Metathesaurus and Semantic Net are used as the key knowledge sources in building the knowledge base.
8138599	Use of the nursing simulation laboratory in reentry programs: an innovative setting for updating clinical skills.	Nurses who have been inactive for five or more years are deficient in technical skills and have high levels of anxiety regarding these deficiencies. Collegiate school of nursing laboratories are ideal settings to provide skill practice, reduce fear regarding new technology, and restore confidence of returnees. This article describes the laboratory component of a clinical update course that uses principles of adult education and self-pacing through independent learning stations to teach contemporary nursing skills. A description of instructional resources and equipment used to facilitate the practice is included.
8141540	Familial multiple glomus tumors: report of a pedigree and literature review.	Glomus tumors are uncommon, benign soft tissue tumors that can occur in a familial or sporadic pattern. Only 15 pedigrees have been reported to date. We report a family with three generations developing multiple glomus tumors of the skin. Although controversy exists over pattern of inheritance, review of the published pedigrees plus this additional one suggests an autosomal dominant inheritance with incomplete penetrance and variable expressivity.
8148058	Understanding post operative psychosis and sleep deprivation: a case approach.	The care of a critically ill, intensive care unit patient dangerously out of touch with reality, is a challenge requiring exceptional problem solving skills. This article will discuss the nursing management of a distressing, unusual case of post-operative psychosis. Specifically, this case involved a patient who suddenly became psychotic on his first post-operative day after having an atrial septal defect repair. The patient's self-destructive actions and the innovative strategies used by nursing staff to effectively intervene are described. Discussion of the complex interrelationship of factors that contributed to this patient's erratic behaviour is highlighted. Questions about the effects of sleep deprivation are raised.
8160886	Chronic norepinephrine infusion stimulates glucose uptake in white and brown adipose tissues.	Cold exposure activates the sympathetic nervous system and markedly stimulates glucose uptake in rat peripheral tissues [A. L. Vallerand, F. Prusse, and L. J. Bukowiecki. Am. J. Physiol 259 (Regulatory Integrative Comp. Physiol. 28): R1043-R1049, 1990]. To test whether norepinephrine (NE) mimics the effects of cold exposure, we estimated the effects of chronic NE treatment on tissue glucose uptake by determining the glucose metabolic index using the 2-[1,2-3H(N)]deoxy-D-glucose method. NE was administered in conscious rats at various doses (ranging from 1.9 to 25.1 nmol.kg-1.min-1) during 4 days via minipumps implanted subcutaneously. At doses > 10 nmol.kg-1.min-1, NE maximally stimulated glucose uptake in interscapular brown adipose tissue (approximately 50 times above controls) and epididymal white adipose tissue (approximately 3 times above controls). NE infusion (18.8 nmol.kg-1.min-1) increased the circulating levels of NE from 1.1 +/- 0.1 to 19.2 +/- 0.4 nM (P &lt; 0.001), which is in the range of concentrations for the stimulatory effects of NE on glucose uptake in isolated brown adipocytes. At all concentrations tested, NE infusion did not stimulate glucose uptake in the heart and skeletal muscles. NE treatment did not significantly alter plasma insulin or glucose levels but increased the concentration of circulating free fatty acids. The capacity of brown adipose tissue for NE stimulation of glucose uptake (expressed per g of tissue) was much higher than that of white adipose tissue (100 times), various types of white or red skeletal muscles (10-80 times), or the heart (3-4 times).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8161133	[Etiology of &quot;pouchitis&quot;]	&quot;Pouchitis&quot; remains an unsolved problem which affects the lives of significant numbers of patients who have undergone an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis procedure for ulcerative colitis or familial adenomatous polyposis. Conditions which mimic &quot;pouchitis&quot; include overflow incontinence, specific infections, ischemic enteritis, peri-pouch sepsis and Crohn's disease. Current theories of etiology and implications for treatment are examined in this review article.
8164476	Photodynamic therapy and the treatment of neoplastic diseases of the larynx.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is an innovative treatment involving the use of light-sensitive drugs to selectively identify and destroy diseased cells. Therefore, photodynamic therapy has the potential to treat and cure precancerous and early cancerous lesions (carcinoma in situ [CIS], T1 and T2) of the larynx while preserving normal tissue. Eleven patients with recurrent leukoplakia and carcinomas of the larynx were treated with PDT with follow-up to 27 months. One patient with a T1 verrucous carcinoma, 5 patients with T1 squamous cell carcinomas of the vocal cord failing radiotherapy, 1 patient with a T2 squamous cell carcinoma of the vocal cord failing radiotherapy, and 3 patients with CIS and severe atypia were treated with PDT and obtained a complete response and are disease free. One patient with a T3 carcinoma of the larynx was treated with PDT but died 4 weeks post-treatment of unrelated causes and could not be assessed. Photodynamic therapy is a promising therapy for treatment of precancerous and cancerous lesions of the larynx. This therapy may be particularly beneficial for the treatment of recurrent carcinomas of the larynx that have failed conventional radiotherapy, thereby preserving voice and eliminating the need for destructive laryngeal surgery.
8172384	Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy: a noninvasive technique for the study of occlusive arterial leg disease and peripheral vasodilator therapy.	Using 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the calf muscle, the authors studied patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease. They studied PCr depletion and intracellular pH during aerobic exercise in patients and controls. The phosphocreatine (PCr) index ([PCr]/([PCr] + [Pi])) at rest was correlated with blood flow measured by plethysmography. During aerobic exercise a greater decrease in pH was obtained in patients (p &lt; 0.03). They also studied the work necessary to reach a PCr index = 0.5 during ischemic exercise. This workload was lower in patients than in controls: 32.99 +/- 3.04 J vs 58.89 +/- 8.55 J, p &lt; 0.05. After vasodilator therapy the workload was improved in patients: 32.99 +/- 3.04 J vs 38.85 +/- 3.54 J, p &lt; 0.05. These results suggest that therapy resulted in improved tissue perfusion in patients.
8173366	Chest pain in women: clinical, investigative, and prognostic features.	OBJECTIVE--To characterise clinical, investigative, and prognostic features of women referred with chest pain who subsequently underwent coronary angiography. DESIGN--Analysis of all women with angina referred to one consultant during 1987-91 who subsequently underwent coronary angiography, with follow up to present day. SETTING--Cardiothoracic centre. SUBJECTS--Women with normal coronary arteries; women with coronary artery disease shown on angiography; men with coronary artery disease matched for age; men referred with chest pain during the same period subsequently found to have normal coronary arteries. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES--Risk factor analysis; results of exercise testing and coronary angiography; intervention; morbidity and mortality. RESULTS--Women comprised 23% (202/886) of patients referred with chest pain who subsequently underwent angiography. 83/202 women had normal coronary angiograms compared with 55/684 men (41% v 8%, P &lt; 0.01). Diabetes mellitus was the only risk factor more frequently encountered in women with coronary artery disease (P = 0.001). The specificity and positive predictive value of exercise testing before angiography were significantly lower in women than men (71% v 93%, P &lt; 0.001 and 76% v 95%, P &lt; 0.001, respectively). Revascularisation procedures were as common in women with coronary artery disease as in men (81 (68%) v 70 (59%)), and there was no difference in event rate during follow up. Many patients with normal coronary arteries, irrespective of sex, had symptoms during follow up (61 (73%) women, 36 (65%) men) and continued to take antianginal drugs (27 (33%) women, 14 (28%) men); 14 (17%) women and six (11%) men required hospital readmission for severe symptoms. CONCLUSIONS--In this series, although women comprised the minority of patients referred with chest pain, a diagnosis of normal coronary arteries was five times more common in women than men. Risk factor analysis and exercise testing were of limited value in predicting coronary artery disease in women. There was no sex bias regarding revascularisation procedures, and outcome was similar. A diagnosis of non-cardiac chest pain in patients with normal coronary arteries was of little benefit to the patient with regard to morbidity.
8178872	Prenatal diagnosis of sirenomelus with color Doppler ultrasonography.	Sirenomelus is an invariably lethal congenital anomaly characterized by complete or nearly complete fusion of the lower extremities that occurs in 1 of 60,000 births. In about 50% of cases this condition cannot be diagnosed prenatally because of the associated oligohydramnios that precludes a detailed examination of the fetus. We present a case of sirenomelus in which prenatal diagnosis was aided by color Doppler ultrasonography; visualization of the vitelline artery as a single, large intraabdominal vessel that did not branch in the fetal pelvis but rather coursed ventrally into the umbilical cord proved to be diagnostic of this rare condition. Color Doppler flow ultrasonography is a valuable tool for the prenatal diagnosis of sirenomelus.
8184203	[Hypothyroidism and simple goiter in pregnancy]	The incidence of hypothyroidism during pregnancy is 2.5%. Failure to diagnose the problem causes serious complications both to the mater and to the fetus. This pathological condition is verified on the basis of clinical analysis and above all in the laboratory. Autoimmunity is frequently the cause of hypothyroidism whereas this condition is rarely provoked as a result of surgery and therapy with I131. Pregnancy causes a definite deterioration of a pre-existing euthyroid goiter, so as it requires a careful monitoring of woman at risk. If the goiter is found to be neoplastic, its histotype and size must be studied carefully in order to provide for surgery. Therapy with L-thyroxine is essential to avoid damage to both mater and fetus and to monitor the glandular growth in the euthyroid goiter.
8192506	[Acquired cystic renal disease: a case of intracystic hemorrhage simulating renal tumor]	We report a case of intracystic hemorrhage in a patient with acquired cystic kidney disease, undergoing hemodialysis. A surgical procedure was performed owing to the discrepancy between the clinical and radiological findings. The histological analyses revealed no evidence of kidney tumours.
8192626	Psychological morbidity associated with motor vehicle accidents.	Fifty victims of recent motor vehicle accidents (MVAs), who had sought medical attention after their accidents, were assessed for possible psychological morbidity as a result of the accident. Forty age, gender-matched controls were also assessed with the same instruments. Forty-six percent of the MVA victims met the criteria for current post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD) as a result of the accident while 20% showed a sub-syndromal version (the reexperiencing symptom cluster plus either the avoidance/numbing cluster or the over-arousal cluster) of PTSD. Although all MVA victims showed some form of driving reluctance, only 1 S met the criteria for driving phobia. Those MVA victims who met the criteria for PTSD or sub-syndromal PTSD were significantly more likely to have experienced previous trauma, other than a serious MVA, and were more likely (P = 0.008) to have previously met the criteria for PTSD as a result of that trauma. Forty-eight percent of MVA victims who met the criteria for current PTSD also met the criteria for current major depression. Significantly more current MVA-PTSDs had suffered previous major depressive episodes.
8197493	Microvascular replantation of avulsed tissue after a dog bite of the face.	Various authors have described successful microsurgical replantation of totally avulsed facial tissue. In a significant number of cases difficulties were experienced with the venous anastomoses and/or venous drainage of the tissue. Many different methods were used to overcome the problem. Despite these difficulties, good cosmetic and functional results were reported. These injuries are often caused by animal bites. Adequate wound care and the excellent local blood supply make immediate reconstruction after animal bites of the face a safe procedure. Other authors describing similar lesions and immediate repair have not reported the complication of wound infection. We report on a patient who suffered a dog bite with total avulsion of most of the left upper lip, cheek and left alar rim. Venous congestion was overcome by multiple needle punctures to drain blood from the outer surface of the flap and local of application of heparin. A good cosmetic result and the return of sensation and function of the orbicularis oris muscle were obtained.
8206601	Energetics of crossbridge phosphorylation and contraction in vascular smooth muscle.	Ca(2+)-dependent crossbridge phosphorylation is the primary mechanism governing crossbridge cycling in smooth muscle. A four-state crossbridge model in which phosphorylation is the only proposed regulatory mechanism was successful in predicting the mechanical properties of the swine carotid media including latch (sustained force with reduced crossbridge cycling). This model also predicts that the ATP consumption of crossbridge phosphorylation is approximately equal to that of crossbridge cycling and that ATP consumption will rise hyperbolically with increases in steady-state force. This review shows these predictions to be consistent with the available energetics data for the carotid media. The absolute energetic cost of covalent regulation is modest and less than the energy savings associated with latch. However, covalent regulation should reduce the total mechanical efficiency of smooth muscle relative to striated muscle.
8209377	The nephrotoxicity of intravenously administered cadmium-metallothionein: effect of dose, mode of administration, and preexisting renal cadmium burden.	Exogenously administered cadmium-metallothionein (Cd-MT) is highly nephrotoxic, producing renal damage similar to that seen following chronic Cd exposure. However, nephrotoxicity following Cd-MT administration occurs at a much lower renal Cd concentration than that following chronic Cd exposure. In the present study, the sensitivity of female rats to bolus and infused doses of Cd-MT was evaluated. The Cd-MT was administered via the jugular vein either as a bolus or infused over a 24-hr period via osmotic minipumps in naive rats and in rats which had been pretreated with 5 microM CdCl2/kg, sc, five times/week, for 9 weeks. Renal toxicity was evaluated by urinary lactate dehydrogenase, protein, and MT excretion. In naive rats, a bolus dose of 0.15 mg Cd/kg as Cd-MT was nephrotoxic. In comparison, a two-fold higher infused dose was required to cause nephrotoxicity. In Cd-pretreated rats, a bolus dose of 0.45 mg Cd/kg as Cd-MT was necessary to produce nephrotoxicity, presumably because Cd pretreatment yielded renal MT levels that were about 15 times higher than the levels in naive animals. Although a bolus dose of 3 mg Cd/kg as CdCl2 resulted in a renal Cd concentration about 1.5 times that found after administration of 0.15 mg Cd/kg as Cd-MT, it did not produce any nephro-toxicity. The results of this study suggest that a renal Cd concentration, which is nephrotoxic if the Cd-MT is administered as a bolus dose, is well tolerated if the Cd-MT is delivered at a sustained level over a 24-hr period. Furthermore, the preexisting renal Cd burden reduces the sensitivity to nephrotoxicity of Cd-MT, presumably due to elevated MT levels available for sequestration of incoming Cd. We conclude that mere accumulation of Cd in the kidney does not necessarily result in nephrotoxicity; instead, the circulating Cd-MT level, as well as the intracellular MT concentration, appear to be the more important determinants of nephrotoxicity.
8209812	Established antimicrobial susceptibility testing methods with a new twist--points to consider and a glimpse of the future.	The developments seen in these systems allow speculation about future trends in antimicrobial susceptibility testing methods. Microbiology system manufacturers seem to be heeding the call of all industry, for greater automation, enhanced data management capabilities and increased flexibility (see Table 2 below). [table: see text] Cost seems to be less of an issue. This may be due to the decrease in the availability of medical technologists and the need to find systems with better throughput and increased productivity. Increased automation, data management capabilities, and walkaway technology may justify the additional cost of some of these systems. The computer software package provided with these systems is becoming increasingly important with the focus on quality assurance and utilization. Computer generated data analysis gives the microbiologist the tools to educate physicians through the use of selective reporting functions, antibiograms, cost analysis and drug effectiveness comparisons. Each of the four systems is unique and will probably find a niche among the various markets that exist in the United States, European and other specialized markets. The lack of automation in the ALAMAR system may be its selling point in those areas where automation is not affordable, but new ways are being sought for ease of interpretation of results. BIOMIC and CATHRA systems may be more beneficial to those microbiologists who do not want to stop doing traditional Bauer-Kirby or agar dilution methods, but require computer enhancements. ALADIN, may fill a niche to which other walkaway systems have not adapted, but because of its expense, will face more demands than the other three systems covered in this review.
8218959	Relative bioavailability of two disopyramide capsules in humans based on total, unbound, and unbound enantiomer concentrations.	The relative bioavailability of two 100-mg disopyramide formulations which showed almost an 8- to 10-fold difference in their dissolution rates at pH 1.2 and 6.8 was determined in eight healthy subjects using a randomized block design. Although no significant differences in relative bioavailability were observed between the two formulations when based on the total disopyramide concentration, an almost 30 per cent difference in the extent of bioavailability was observed when assessed in terms of the unbound (+/-)- and (-)-disopyramide concentration, due probably to stereoselective nonlinear plasma protein binding. This suggests that unbound enantiomer parameters would be more sensitive to differences in bioavailability between two disopyramide formulations. Therefore, the type of concentration used would be an important factor for precise evaluation of the relative bioavailability of racemic drugs.
8221861	Experimental validation of geometric and densitometric coronary measurements on the new generation Cardiovascular Angiography Analysis System (CAAS II).	Computer-assisted contour detection and videodensitometric cross sectional area assessment of coronary artery obstructions on the CAAS II system were validated in vitro and in vivo by angiographic cinefilm recording and automated measurement of stenosis phantoms (luminal diameter 0.5, 0.7, 1.0, 1.4, 1.9 mm) which were first inserted in a plexiglass model and then serially implanted in swine coronary arteries. &quot;Obstruction diameter&quot; (OD) and &quot;obstruction area&quot; (OA) values obtained from 10 in vitro and 19 in vivo images at the site of the artificial stenoses were compared with the true phantom dimensions. The in vitro assessment of OD yielded an accuracy of 0.00 +/- 0.11 mm (correlation coefficient: r = 0.98, y = 0.18 + 0.82x, standard error of estimate: SEE = 0.08), whereas the in vivo measurement of OD gave an accuracy of -0.01 +/- 0.18 mm (r = 0.94, y = 0.22 + 0.82x, SEE = 0.15). The assessment of OA gave an accuracy of -0.08 +/- 0.21 mm2 in vitro (r = 0.97, y = 0.08 + 0.99x, SEE = 0.22) and -0.22 +/- 0.32 mm2 in vivo (r = 0.95, y = 0.21 + 1.01x, SEE = 0.33). The mean reproducibility was +/- 0.09 mm for geometric measurements and +/- 0.21 mm2 for videodensitometric assessments, respectively. Thus, due to inherent limitations of the imaging chain, the reliability of geometric coronary measurements is still far superior to videodensitometric assessments of vessel cross sectional areas.
8223104	Morphological and/or functional imagiology diagnosis of epiphora.	Several tests and examinations are necessary for an accurate diagnosis of disorders of the lacrimal drainage system. The AA studied 100 patients with epiphora, divided in two groups. Forty patients, first group (I), aged between 4 and 78 years old (mean age 47.8 +/- 9.6 years), were examined using the classical tests for the study of epiphora, sequential dacryoscintigraphy (SD) and conventional subtraction macrodacryocystrography (CSMD). In the second group (II), 60 patients (aged 45.5 +/- 8.7 years) were studied using the classical tests and by digital subtraction macrodacryocystography (DSMD). The results showed that when functional epiphora is present, there is no difference between a simple clinical approach and sequential dacryoscintigraphy. However, when information is needed regarding choice of surgical approach, DSMD appears to give the best results.
8251202	Child accident data: accessible and available?	The accessibility, availability and content of health service data on accidental injuries occurring in childhood was investigated. Death data, admission data and Accident and Emergency (A&amp;E) data were examined. Considerable problems were experienced with the availability of routine data, and the available information was found to be limited by the nature and content of the data collected by computerized systems. Data were limited both in terms of providing information to the local Accident Prevention Working Group and for the monitoring of preventive activity. It was also determined that none of the data were being audited. It was concluded that there is a need for national agreement concerning both cause of injury coding and severity coding.
8254438	Merging nursing departments. An experience.	In 1979, two of the largest private, not-for-profit hospitals in New York City merged to become one institution under the aegis of a single corporate administration. The integration of two large and disparate nursing departments, each with its own distinct identity and organizational structure, into what would become a unified department of nursing with a shared vision and goals was a complex task. The author, the nurse executive who oversaw this transition, describes the process 12 years after the merger.
8263036	Nitric oxide production from a macrophage cell line: interaction with autologous and allogeneic lymphocytes.	The indirect stimulation of macrophages to produce nitrite was examined by using the macrophage cell line J774.J774 spontaneously produced nitrite, when cultured at high concentration. J774 cultured in low concentration (&lt; 10(4) cells in 100 microliters) barely produced nitrite. J774 cultured in low concentration produced a large amount of nitrite by the co-culture of nonadherent spleen cells or nonadherent peritoneal exudate cells, which were stimulated with con A, anti-CD3, or staphylococcal enterotoxin A. J774 (BALB/c derived: H-2d) cultured with either syngeneic (BALB/c) or allogeneic (B6; H-2b B10BR; H-2k) nonadherent lymphocytes, which were stimulated with conA or anti-CD3, produced nitric oxide. However, J774 produced nitric oxide by stimulation with SEA only when co-cultured with SEA-reactive T lymphocytes. Peritoneal exudate cells from mice, which did not proliferate by the stimulation of conA or anti-CD3, proliferated well by the addition of L-arginine homologue, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine. The proliferation of nonadherent peritoneal exudate cells stimulated with conA or anti-CD3 was suppressed by the addition of peritoneal macrophages. This suppression was abolished by the addition of NG-monomethyl-L-arginine.
8266746	On the role of enzyme kinetic parameters in determining the effectiveness with which channelling can decrease the size of a metabolite pool.	Recently, it has been argued that the phenomenon of direct transfer of intermediate metabolites between adjacent enzymes, also known as metabolic channelling, would not decrease the concentration of those intermediates in the 'bulk' solution. However, this conclusion has been drawn by extrapolation from the results of simulations with a rather restricted set of parameters. We show that, for a number of kinetic cases, the existence of metabolic channelling can decrease the size of the soluble pool of intermediates. When the enzyme(s) 'downstream' of the channel have a catalytic capacity that is large relative to the enzymes 'upstream' of the channel, the decrease of concentration can be substantial (3 orders of magnitude).
8271073	Assessment of the accuracy of physical activity questionnaire occupational data.	The validity and reliability of occupational physical activity data from survey instruments were determined in 75 men and women (age 23 to 59 years) in white-collar jobs. Data were validated against measures of cardiorespiratory fitness, body fatness, motion detection, pulmonary function, and 12 days of occupational physical activity records. More than 90% of occupational physical activity was spent in light-intensity sitting, standing, and walking. Test-retest reliability was high for most occupational questions (r > or = .63, P &lt; .05). Correlation coefficients between questionnaire data and validation criteria that reflect heavy-intensity physical activity were low (r &lt; .17, P > .05). The modified Tecumseh Occupational Questionnaire and Seven-Day Recall, which classified occupational physical activity in hours per week worked and average level of ratio of associated metabolic rate for a specific activity divided by the resting metabolic rate, on the job, correlated best with physical activity records (r = .11 to .47). Validation of these self-administered questionnaires in populations with a greater diversity of jobs and occupational energy requirements is needed.
8286622	Cryptococcal meningitis and AIDS.	Dr. William G. Powderly provides a comprehensive review of the state of our knowledge regarding cryptococcal infection in persons with infection due to human immunodeficiency virus type 1. The introduction of fluconazole and itraconazole increased insight into prognostic factors affecting these patients. The need to suppress this fungal infection in individuals with impaired immunity has greatly altered the management of cryptococcal meningitis; therapy for this condition was established by the landmark study conducted by the Mycosis Study Group in 1979 (Bennett JE, Dismukes WE, Duma RJ, et al. A comparison of amphotericin B alone and combined with flucytosine in treatment of cryptococcal meningitis. N Engl J Med 1979;301:126-31). In this AIDS commentary Dr. Powderly clearly outlines the progress made through clinical investigations and the problems that remain to be resolved.
8294701	Preservation of regional myocardial function and myocardial oxygen tension during acute ischemia in pigs: comparison of selective synchronized suction and retroinfusion of coronary veins to synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion.	OBJECTIVES. The efficacy of selective synchronized suction and retroinfusion of coronary veins was compared with synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion in preventing ischemic reduction of regional myocardial function and myocardial oxygen tension. BACKGROUND. Because incomplete protection by synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion during ischemia might result from nonselective retroinfusion and only passive drainage of the veins, a suction device was added to a retroinfusion system. METHODS. Regional myocardial function (ultrasonic crystals) and myocardial oxygen tension (polarographic electrodes) were studied in 30 pigs during 10-min occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (ischemia), followed by reperfusion. During ischemia, group A (n = 10) was supported by selective synchronized suction and retroinfusion; group B (n = 10) was supported by synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion, and group C (n = 10) was not supported by retroinfusion. RESULTS. In group A, subendocardial segment shortening decreased from 21 +/- 4% (mean +/- SD) before ischemia to 11 +/- 5% during ischemia. In contrast, systolic dyskinesia was observed in group B (-2 +/- 4%, p &lt; 0.001) and group C (-2 +/- 5%, p &lt; 0.001). During ischemia, the decrease in intramyocardial oxygen tension was less pronounced in group A (41 +/- 15 vs. 27 +/- 12 mm Hg) than in group B (40 +/- 10 vs. 19 +/- 10 mm Hg, p = 0.1) or group C (33 +/- 11 vs. 12 +/- 8 mm Hg, p = 0.002). During ischemia, myocardial surface oxygen tension was preserved > 0 mm Hg only in group A. CONCLUSIONS. Preservation of regional myocardial function and myocardial oxygen tension was substantially higher by selective synchronized suction and retroinfusion of coronary veins than by synchronized coronary venous retroperfusion in pigs.
8303753	Comparison of magnetic resonance volume flow rates, angiography, and carotid Dopplers. Preliminary results.	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We compared the results of conventional angiography, carotid Doppler, and magnetic resonance angiography volume flow rates to determine the clinical utility of volume flow rate assessment of blood flow to the anterior circulation in patients with carotid occlusive disease. METHODS: From 11 symptomatic patients, a total of 22 extracranial carotid arteries were studied with all three techniques. The studies were independently read, and regression analysis was used to compare the measurements. RESULTS: Carotid Doppler measurements of the distal extracranial carotid arteries were proportional to the inverse of the extracranial carotid volume flow rate (r = .53, R2 = 29%, P &lt; .01), volume flow rates were proportional to the inverse of measured percent stenosis on angiography (r = .84, R2 = 71%, P &lt; .01), and Dopplers were proportional to angiography (r = .94, R2 = 90%, P &lt; .01). Symptomatic Doppler systolic velocity was significantly higher (P &lt; .002), symptomatic measured stenosis was significantly higher (P &lt; .002), and symptomatic volume flow rate was significantly lower (P &lt; .01) than their respective asymptomatic-side values. These preliminary observations, however, may well change once a large data set, especially one in which more patients with high-grade carotid stenosis are included, is studied. CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of carotid volume flow rates by magnetic resonance angiography quantifies flow reduction secondary to atherosclerotic occlusive disease. The easily obtained flow data add both documentation of arterial flow characteristics related to internal carotid stenosis and information regarding the adequacy of collateral pathways.
8303971	Transcutaneous minoxidil in the treatment of erectile dysfunctions in spinal cord injured men.	We have tested the erectile effect of a topical applied drug (Minoxidil) in 15 spinal cord injured men. Minoxidil exerts a direct relaxant effect on arterial smooth muscles. This topical vasodilatory agent (1 ml of a 2% solution) was applied on the skin of the penile shaft. Increases in diameter and rigidity were measured with the RigiScan device (Dacomed Minneapolis, Minnesota). A total of 4 paraplegic men with a complete dorsal level lesion reported a positive erectile response. 3 of these 4 patients preferred to continue with this noninvasive treatment compared to prostaglandin E1 intracavernous injections. In our study no side effects were emerged and minoxidil proved to be well tolerated at the cutaneous level of the penis. Our results indicate that this treatment should be tested in spinal cord injured men before a invasive therapy is initiated.
8312615	Risk assessment on the importation of milk and milk products (excluding cheese) from countries not free from foot and mouth disease.	The authors discuss the risk assessment conducted by the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service (AQIS) on the importation of milk and milk products (excluding cheese) from countries not free from foot and mouth disease (FMD). This assessment was undertaken in response to requests from countries wishing to export dairy products for sale on the Australian market. AQIS conducted a public consultation on the proposal, in line with Australian Government policy on transparency and accountability in the quarantine decision-making process. The authors examine the procedures involved in the investigation of the likely presence of FMD virus in milk of vaccinated and non-vaccinated cows, and of the heat treatment parameters effective in the inactivation of the virus. The data provide a useful aid in the assessment of the risk factors associated with the importation of milk and milk products, and in the development of quarantine conditions for importation.
8331957	Identification and simulation of new non-random statistical properties common to different populations of eukaryotic non-coding genes.	The autocorrelation function analysing the occurrence probability of the i-motif YRY(N)iYRY in genes allows the identification of mainly two periodicities modulo 2, 3 and the preferential occurrence of the motif YRY(N)6YRY (R = purine = adenine or guanine, Y = pyrimidine = cytosine or thymine, N = R or Y). These non-random genetic statistical properties can be simulated by an independent mixing of the three oligonucleotides YRYRYR, YRYYRY and YRY(N)6 (Arqus &amp; Michel, 1990b). The problem investigated in this study is whether new properties can be identified in genes with other autocorrelation functions and also simulated with an oligonucleotide mixing model. The two autocorrelation functions analysing the occurrence probability of the i-motifs RRR(N)iRRR and YYY(N)iYYY simultaneously identify three new non-random genetic statistical properties: a short linear decrease, local maxima for i identical to 3[6] (i = 3, 9, etc) and a large exponential decrease. Furthermore, these properties are common to three different populations of eukaryotic non-coding genes: 5' regions, introns and 3' regions (see section 2). These three non-random properties can also be simulated by an independent mixing of the four oligonucleotides R8, Y8, RRRYRYRRR, YYYRYRYYY and large alternating R/Y series. The short linear decrease is a result of R8 and Y8, the local maxima for i identical to 3[6], of RRRYRYRRR and YYYRYRYYY, and the large exponential decrease, of large alternating R/Y series (section 3). The biological meaning of these results and their relation to the previous oligonucleotide mixing model are presented in the Discussion.
8336911	Multifocal intraocular lenses and glare.	In a previous paper, we reported finding deficits in the contrast sensitivity functions of patients with diffractive multifocal intraocular lenses (IOL's). The results were consistent with optical measurements of the modulation transfer function (MTF) of the IOL. When this MTF is treated as a linear spatial frequency filter, it predicts the existence of a glare effect; contrast threshold for the recognition of target letters should be elevated by a bright, adjacent stimulus. We tested this prediction by measuring contrast thresholds for recognizing 0.2 degrees Sloan letters on a background luminance of 11.2 cd/m2. The letters were presented inside bright (300 cd/m2) annular rings with inner diameters ranging from 0.42 to 1.22 degrees. Thresholds were measured for seven multifocal subjects, age-matched groups of monofocal subjects and phakic-control subjects, and a young group. Multifocal subjects exhibited a greater glare effect than monofocal subjects, and they in turn exhibited a greater effect than phakic-control subjects. The observed glare effect for multifocal subjects was about twice that expected from the spatial filtering property of the multifocal IOL.
8342761	A review of anaesthesia for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm with special emphasis on preclamping fluid resuscitation.	Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (RAAA) remains a critical emergency with an average hospital mortality of 50%. There has been no significant improvement in survival despite advances in anaesthesia, surgery and intensive care over the last 30 years. It is believed that early diagnosis, aggressive surgical management and meticulous attention to haemodynamic status and coagulation may improve survival, but this is unsubstantiated. Mortality is closely linked to the degree of preoperative hypotension and other related factors such as massive blood transfusion and cardiac arrest. Survival depends not only on the severity of rupture, but also the ability to compensate physiologically, and is linked to the premorbid state of the patient. Management priorities are dictated chiefly by the clinical signs and symptoms at presentation. There is controversy regarding the appropriate preoperative fluid regimen for RAAA.
8347739	Methods for pooled analyses of epidemiologic studies.	This paper presents a systematic methodology for the pooling and analysis of previously conducted epidemiologic studies. It discusses the methodologic issues to consider and the procedures to follow when conducting a pooled analysis of individual subject level data. I review random and fixed effects models to estimate pooled risks and the methods to examine whether heterogeneity in study-specific effect estimates exists. Analytic strategies presented here can be used to assess sources of heterogeneity, particularly those originating from different study designs and methods. I describe methods for incorporating a qualitative assessment of the study design and data collection methods into the quantitative estimation of the overall effect. Finally, I make recommendations for future pooled analyses of epidemiologic studies.
8367706	[Heterogeneity of involutional osteoporosis]	Bone tissue mineral content (BTMC) was measured on transiliac bone biopsies by a combined microradiographic-microdensitometric technique. The samples originated from 69 osteoporotic postmenopausal women aged 42-86 (mean age 63 years). The diagnosis of osteoporosis was based upon a previous in-hospital screening. Results demonstrated a clear heterogeneity of BTMC values in osteoporotic women as compared with an age-related decrease in 31 age- and sex-matched controls. No correlation with clinical parameters could be found: Therapeutic issues raised by this study are discussed.
8367792	Sonographic quantitative analysis of the heart in the third trimester of gestation.	The fetal heart was studied with transabdominal sonography in 40 single normal pregnancies to analyze the increase of cardiac length and width (major longitudinal and transverse diameters of the heart) during the third trimester. Relationships between the cardiac data and fetal age, femur length and biparietal diameter (BPD) were explored by allometry and linear regression analysis. The length and width of the heart could be measured reproducibly in the 4-chamber view of the heart. This study verified that the heart grows very rapidly during the third trimester (positive allometry). The linear increase of the fetal heart shows a strong and significant correlation with the increase of both femur length and BPD. This suggests that non invasive analysis of cardiac data can be useful for prenatal detection of congenital heart disease or for the assessment of gestational age.
8368115	[Extracorporeal lithofragmentation and of direct contact. Development of mathematical models for calculating the energy and predicting the fragmentation]	The present experimental 'in vitro' study pursues the development of mathematical equations which, prior to lithofragmentation, would allow to estimate the amount of energy required and to predict the degree of fragmentation for each of the different sources of energy. A total of 114 calculi with 6 different compositions were analyzed by conventional X-rays (Rx), computerized axial tomography (CT) and dual X-ray densitometry (DO). Calculi were then fragmented using 4 different types of energy: electrohydraulic (LEH), piezoelectric (LEP), ultrasounds (US) and pulse laser (LAS). The correlation between imaging techniques parameters on the one side, and the amount of energy used and degree of fragmentation obtained on the other one, allow with a multiple linear regression analysis, both to develop mathematical equations to estimate the amount of energy required, and to predict the fragmentation rate.
8374360	Sports medicine electives. Are they available in Canadian family medicine programs?	Sports medicine is becoming a larger part of a family physicians' practice. We surveyed all family medicine teaching programs in Canada to determine how many offer sports medicine experiences and who teaches them. The study found that few residents have clinical training in sports medicine, though most have attended seminars. Primary care physicians, orthopedic surgeons, physiotherapists, and rheumatologists teach sports medicine.
8377179	The 3' codon context effect on UAG suppressor tRNA is different in Escherichia coli and human cells.	We have compared the effect of 3' context on the efficiency of nonsense suppressor tRNAs in Escherichia coli and human cells. Plasmids containing amber (UAG) termination codons were constructed in the vector pRSV beta gal by oligonucleotide insertion at an N-terminal location in a lacZ fusion. A family of identical vectors was prepared with either A, C, G or U as the first 3' base following the stop codon. These derivatives of pRSV beta gal were expressed in E. coli as stable plasmids, or transiently in human 293 cell tissue culture. Nonsense suppression was monitored using enzyme assays for beta-galactosidase. In E. coli the efficiency of a plasmid-borne bacterial tRNA(trp) UAG suppressor varied A > G > C = U. When the same lacZ reporter vectors were cotransfected with a human tRNA(ser) UAG suppressor plasmid into human cells, context effects of a different nature were detected. Double reciprocal analysis of dose-response experiments were used to show that the efficiency of suppression varied C > G > U = A. The discovery of different codon context effects on nonsense suppression in human cells suggest that the interaction between mammalian tRNAs or release factors and their target codons may have different characteristics from those in bacteria.
8380197	Expression of neurotransmitter receptors by mRNAs from neurons developing in vitro: a Xenopus oocyte expression study.	Poly(A)+ mRNA was extracted from cultures of neurons isolated from mouse embryonic day 14 cerebral cortex and injected into Xenopus oocytes. This led to the expression of receptors for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glycine, acetylcholine, serotonin, glutamate, kainate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, and quisqualate. Northern blot analysis of poly(A)+ mRNA from the cultured neurons with a GluR1 cDNA probe revealed the presence of three hybridization bands with estimated mRNA sizes of 5.1, 4.0, and 3.1 kb, respectively. The development of mRNAs coding for neurotransmitter receptors was investigated by isolating mRNA from neurons cultured for 2, 8, and 14 days in vitro and injecting it into Xenopus oocytes. The amplitude of membrane currents elicited by the transmitters gave a measure of the relative amounts of the different mRNAs. The size of the responses to kainate, aspartate (together with glycine), glutamate, acetylcholine, GABA, serotonin, and glycine increased with the time of culture in vitro. However, in contrast to all other agonist-induced currents, the current induced by glycine failed to increase further from 8 to 14 days in culture. It is concluded that the time course of receptor development in cortical neurons in vitro is similar to the development in vivo.
8390297	A new method of scaling up free flow electrophoresis.	Free flow electrophoresis (FFE) has been utilized for the separation of proteins and cells for many years and has evolved into the most promising method of continuous separation of biomolecules. One of the major drawbacks inherent in FFE in the past, however, is the thermal convection caused by joule heating which occurs whenever a current is applied across a conducting liquid medium. To provide efficient heat dissipation, the cross-section of traditional FFE units is restricted to approximately 1 mm, which limits sample throughput. A new continuous FFE apparatus, which internally cools the separation unit by passing water through aligned capillary tubes, has been developed. This innovation allows scale-up of the separation without thermal convection. Results of separations of dyes and proteins are presented.
8400711	The 'individualization' of large North American mammals.	The enforcement of wildlife laws and the captive breeding of threatened/endangered species requires the ability to identify individual animals. DNA profiles of a variety of large North American mammals, birds, and fish were generated using ten different oligonucleotide probes. The probes tested were four multilocus probes [33.6, 33.15, JE46, and (TGTC)5] and six 'human unilocus' probes [MS1 (D1S7), CMM101 (D14S13), YNH24 (D2S44), EFD52 (D17S26), TBQ7 (D10S28), and MS43 (D12S11). Each of the probes was chemically synthesized, and labeled by the attachment of alkaline phosphatase; after hybridization, the probes were detected by chemiluminescence catalyzed by the enzyme. Initial screening against zoo blots including samples of bear, wolf, large cat, wild sheep, deer, birds, marine mammals, and fish indicated that three multilocus probes [33.15, 33.6, (TGTC)5] gave informative patterns containing 15-40 bands for most or all of the animals tested, as did two of the 'human unilocus' probes (MS1 and CMM101). The other five probes appeared informative only in some species (for example, YNH24 against canids). Subsequent screenings of populations within species were used to determine genetic diversity by analysis of observed bandsharing (S). Large heterologous populations, such as white-tailed deer, exhibited highly diverse band patterns (S &lt; or = 0.2). Geographically isolated and/or genetically constricted animals, such as endangered Mexican wolves, Tule elk, and Columbian white-tailed deer, exhibited much higher frequencies of bandsharing (0.6 &lt; or = S &lt; or = 0.95).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8403461	Skin microflora of atopic eczema in first time hospital attenders.	The bacterial flora of the skin was assessed quantitatively in 50 children with eczema, aged 6 months to 14 years, referred to the hospital for the first time. Twenty nonatopic controls with an unrelated non-infective disorder were also studied. Cotton-tipped swabs and contact agar discs were taken from the worst affected area of eczema and from an uninvolved site in patients and from the forearm in controls. Swabs were also taken from the nose, axilla and groin in all children. Bacterial colonization of the skin was consistently more common and greater in amount from patients compared with controls. Staphylococcus aureus was the most common pathogen isolated from patients only; from the worst affected area of eczema in 74% of patients and from an uninvolved skin site in 30% of patients. Quantitative assessment showed that the density of colonization was proportional to the severity of eczema. The most common S. aureus phage group was group II accounting for 32% of strains. Resistance to penicillin was present in 88% of strains and to two or more antibiotics in 38% of strains. No relationship was noted between the pattern of resistance and phage group.
8415399	Programmable drug delivery from an erodible association polymer system.	An erodible association polymer system based on blends of cellulose acetate phthalate (CAP) and Pluronic F127, a block copolymer of poly(ethylene oxide) and poly(propylene oxide), has been investigated for its applicability to rate-programmed drug delivery. The compatibility and thermal properties were characterized by DSC and FTIR. Results from the thermal analysis indicate that the blends are compatible above 50% CAP, as revealed by a single composition-dependent glass transition temperature (Tg). The existence of molecular association through intermolecular hydrogen bonding between the carboxylic acid and the ether oxygen groups is supported by the observation of an upward shift in the IR carbonyl stretching frequency at increasing Pluronic F127 concentrations. Using theophylline as a model drug, the in vitro polymer erosion and drug release characteristics of the present polymer system were evaluated at different buffer pH's on a rotating-disk apparatus. The results show that the rates of both polymer erosion and drug release increase with the Pluronic F127 concentration in the blend. Further, at pH 4, the polymer erosion is minimal and the theophylline release appears to be governed mainly by diffusion through the polymer matrix. In contrast, at pH 7.4, the theophylline release is controlled primarily by the polymer surface erosion. To demonstrate the unique approach to programmed drug release based on the concept of nonuniform initial drug distribution, pulsatile patterns of drug release have been achieved successfully from the present surface-erodible polymer system using a multilaminate sample design with alternating drug-loaded layers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8432460	Feasibility of family based screening for colorectal neoplasia: experience in one general surgical practice.	Relatives of patients with colorectal cancer have on average a two to threefold increased risk for developing bowel neoplasia although in some families the risk is much higher. This study examined the compliance for endoscopic screening and faecal occult blood testing among first degree relatives of patients with colorectal cancer to determine the feasibility of offering a screening service in a surgical practice. The endoscopic method (flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy) offered depended upon the extent of family history. Spouses of patients were offered flexible sigmoidoscopy as a group for comparison. Compliance in first degree relatives was significantly higher than in spouses (69% v 47%, p &lt; 0.01) and among those relatives of patients who had died recently from colorectal cancer but time since diagnosis in the index case had no effect. Adenomas were found in 14 of 92 (15%) relatives and three of 30 (10%) spouses. It is estimated that, under our screening guidelines, every 100 patients with colorectal cancer would generate a list of 35-40 relatives who would be screened once by flexible sigmoidoscopy and perhaps 75, who because of their young age, might be screened twice in their lifetime. Also, from this same 100 patients, about 12-15 relatives would merit entry in a colonoscopic screening programme because of their more extensive family history. These results indicate that endoscopic screening of relatives of patients with colorectal cancer is feasible within a practice.
8434671	Subclinical hypothyroidism: a modifiable risk factor for depression?	The authors assessed the lifetime history of major depression in 16 subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism and 15 subjects whose thyroid function was completely normal. The lifetime frequency of depression was significantly higher in the subjects who met the criteria for subclinical hypothyroidism (56%) than in those who did not (20%), suggesting that subclinical hypothyroidism may lower the threshold for the occurrence of depression.
8435459	ESCA surface characterization of four IUPAC reference polymers.	Four reference polymers studied by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry working party on interactions of polymers with living systems were characterized by electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis. The surface of a polyethylene specimen was found to consist of only hydrocarbon (-CH2-) groups, as expected. Similarly, the surface of a poly(dimethyl siloxane) was found to be in close agreement with the expected stoichiometry of this polymer. The surface of the PVC sample showed a high surface concentration of hydrocarbon-rich plasticizer. Also, Si, O and Zn were detected. Cellulose coil specimens were heavily silicone contaminated. A 24 h rinse of this material in water reduced the Si level to 5%, and produced a surface spectrum closer to that expected for cellulose.
8446527	Management of impotence. Diagnostic considerations and therapeutic options.	Impotence affects an estimated 10 million American men. The cause is usually organic in men over age 50; psychogenic impotence is more common in younger men. Vascular disease is the most common cause of impotence. Evaluation in patients with impotence includes thorough history taking and diagnostic testing. Once the cause of impotence is determined, appropriate management can be chosen. Current therapeutic options include vacuum tumescence devices, self-injection, oral therapy, psychotherapy, and penile prostheses.
8448349	Synthesis and toxicity to mammalian cells of the carrot dihydroisocoumarins.	The dihydroisocoumarins (+-)-6-methoxy-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-3,4- dihydroisocoumarin (1), (+-)-6,8-dihydroxy-3-methyl-3,4-dihydroisocoumarin (2), and (+-)-6,8-dimethoxy-3-methyl-3,4-dihydroisocoumarin (3) were synthesized with high yields via metalation of o-methylbenzamides. The toxicity of these compounds and that of (-)-1 extracted from carrot cells were tested, in vitro, on Chinese hamster cells. The toxicity was determined according to the presence or absence of a hydroxyl group in the peri position of the lactonic carbonyl group and according to the stereochemistry of the dihydroisocoumarin.
8456511	[Treatment of hip fractures in a department of general surgery and a department of orthopedic surgery. A comparison]	All patients treated for fractures of the hip in 1989 in a department of general surgery and a department of orthopedics were included in this study. Data regarding demographics, length of hospitalization, rehabilitation, postoperative complications, types of fractures and modes of operation were retrospectively registered and compared. Mean length of hospitalization was significantly longer and the incidence of postoperative complications was significantly higher in the department of general surgery when compared to the specialized department of orthopedics especially with regard to wound infections and the formation of bedsores. We tentatively propose reasons for these differences.
8477128	Prospective surveillance of imipenem/cilastatin use and associated seizures using a hospital information system.	OBJECTIVE: To develop computerized methods to monitor and recommend dosage changes for patients treated with excessive dosages of imipenem/cilastatin (I/C) and to determine the incidence of I/C-associated seizures in our patient population. DESIGN: Prospective observational and interventional study of all patients admitted to LDS Hospital and treated with I/C from May 1, 1987, through June 30, 1991. SETTING: LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City, UT, a 520-bed, tertiary care center associated with the University of Utah School of Medicine. PATIENTS: Using a hospital information system we developed computerized algorithms to identify and monitor patients receiving I/C. These algorithms screened the computer-stored medical records of all inpatient admissions for I/C prescription orders. Computer-decision support algorithms estimated the renal function of each I/C-treated patient and provided suggestions when dosages were determined to be excessive. Additional computer-generated alerts identified patients who were receiving anticonvulsants concomitantly with I/C or whose therapy reflected dosage changes in the previous 24 hours. A list of all I/C-treated patients with alerts was reviewed daily by a clinical pharmacist and prescribing physicians were contacted if the computer-generated suggestions were clinically relevant. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The number and characterization of I/C-associated seizures. RESULTS: From May 1, 1987, through June 30, 1991, we prospectively monitored 107,600 patients of whom 1951 were treated with I/C. The following risk factors for I/C-associated seizures were observed in the I/C-treated population: CNS disease (6 percent), seizure disorders (0.6 percent), and abnormal renal function (70 percent). The observational and interventional methods employed in this study resulted in 79 percent of the patients receiving I/C dosages appropriate for their corresponding renal function. During the 50-month study period, we detected four seizures (0.20 percent) in the I/C-treated patients. All 4 patients were receiving I/C dosages that were excessive with respect to their renal function. CONCLUSIONS: Our rate of seizure (0.2 percent) was lower than the 1-2 percent rate reported in the literature despite the fact that more than 70 percent of the patients who received I/C had risk factors for seizure. We believe that appropriate dosing of I/C results in a low rate of associated seizures. Computer-assisted monitoring of I/C dosages in relation to renal function resulted in a reduced incidence of seizures.
8486417	Catecholamine infusion versus intraaortic counterpulsation at the initial phase of left intraventricular balloon pumping in the fibrillating animal heart.	This experimental study compares the effect of catecholamine infusion to the effect of intraaortic counterpulsation (IABP) while initiating intraventricular balloon pumping (IVBP) in the fibrillating heart. In 12 dogs IVBP started immediately after the induction of ventricular fibrillation. Intravenous adrenaline or noradrenaline (at a progressively increasing infusion rate until the systolic aortic blood pressure was 120 mm Hg) was interchanged with IABP. The systolic aortic pressure, the aortic flow and the mean left atrial pressure were, respectively, 120.4 +/- 0.5 mm Hg, 42 +/- 4 ml kg-1 min-1 and 18.7 +/- 1.2 mm Hg (x +/- SEM) ten min after initiating catecholamine infusion and 97 +/- 5 mm Hg (with a 131 +/- 4 mm Hg diastolic wave), 69.6 +/- 4 ml kg-1 min-1 and 16 +/- 1.5 mm Hg ten min after initiating IABP. The difference in aortic flow was significant (p &lt; 0.001). The results indicate that a better aortic flow may be obtained by combining IVBP and IABP than IVBP and vasoconstrictive agents in the fibrillating heart. If IVBP, IABP and catecholamines are combined, both AF and AP may increase.
8503870	A computer program for the algebraic determination of control coefficients in Metabolic Control Analysis.	A computer program (MetaCon) is described for the evaluation of flux control, concentration control and branch-point distribution control coefficients of a metabolic pathway. Requiring only the reaction scheme as input, the program produces algebraic expressions for the control coefficients in terms of elasticity coefficients, metabolite concentrations and pathway fluxes. Any of these variables can be substituted by numeric or simple algebraic expressions; the expressions will then be automatically rearranged in terms of the remaining unknown variables. When all variables have been substituted, numeric values will be obtained for the control coefficients. The program is a computerized implementation of the matrix method for the determination of control coefficients. The features of MetaCon are compared with those of other programs available to workers in Metabolic Control Analysis. Potential benefits of, and methods of using, MetaCon are discussed. The mathematical background and validity of the matrix method rules are discussed, and the algorithm used by MetaCon is described. The matrix method is shown to be a specific case of a previously described general formalism for calculating control coefficients.
8509004	[Carbon dioxide--contrast medium for digital subtraction angiography]	Fundamental considerations: Despite appreciable improvements in conventional iodine-containing contrast media, vascular studies involving patients with renal insufficiency, hyperthyroidism or known allergic reaction to conventional contrast media continue to pose a problem. Own study: Testing the investigation of the possibility of visualizing vessels using carbon dioxide as a gaseous contrast medium. In 30 patients, angiography of the pelvis and legs (DSA) employing conventional iodine-containing media and/or CO2 were carried out simultaneously. Results, handling and toleration were compared. In two further patients, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stent implantation, respectively, were successfully performed under CO2 control. Results: All the findings obtained with &quot;normal&quot; DSA were also obtainable with CO2. The CO2 examination, however, was often plagued by incomplete contrasting of the blood vessels, with interruption of the contrast medium column, which made assessment more difficult. In two of the 30 patients undergoing angiography of the pelvis and legs, the investigation had to be abandoned on account of persistent intensive lower abdominal pain under CO2 injection.
8511159	Care improves while costs reduce. The clinical nurse specialist in total parenteral nutrition.	Inserting feeding lines into patients requiring total parental nutrition (TPN) is expensive and time consuming. Expanding the role of the clinical nurse specialist in TPN enabled this procedure to be performed percutaneously on the ward, cutting costs, freeing doctors' time and improving patient care.
8531860	Hearing loss in children with brain tumors treated with cisplatin and carboplatin-based high-dose chemotherapy with autologous bone marrow rescue.	Carboplatin is less ototoxic than cisplatin, but ototoxicity may occur with carboplatin at higher doses. We evaluated hearing in children with brain tumors treated with conventional dose cisplatin followed by high-dose carboplatin. Children under 6 years of age, newly diagnosed with brain tumors, were treated after surgery with cisplatin, Etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and vincristine, followed by consolidation with carboplatin, ThioTEPA, Etoposide, and autologous bone marrow rescue. Hearing was assessed before and after consolidation, utilizing standard audiometric techniques. Seven of the 11 evaluable patients developed high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss after induction therapy. Hearing deteriorated after consolidation in five patients, with pure tone threshold shifts of up to 65 dB between 2,000 and 8,000 Hz. Of these five patients, audiological abnormalities were documented in four prior to consolidation, one received cranial irradiation after consolidation, and all five received aminoglycoside antibiotics for at least 2 weeks, with toxic drug levels in four. Three patients have subsequently required hearing aids. Significant ototoxicity is common in these patients. Ototoxicity related to consolidation therapy is likely due to the high dose of carboplatin used, prior cisplatin therapy, aminoglycosides, and, in one patient, cranial irradiation. Audiological assessment is essential in children treated with dose-intensive chemotherapy regimens containing cisplatin and carboplatin for identification and rehabilitation of ototoxicity.
8535112	Needs of visitors in the intensive care unit.	Visitors are defined as biological relatives and significant others, including friends and partners. Meeting the needs of visitors will reduce their stress levels. Nurses have an important role to play in meeting visitors' needs. Visitors needs can be categorised as: informational, emotional, personal, physical, and environmental.
8538499	Measurement of membrane potential of endothelial cells in single perfused microvessels.	The membrane potential is an important modulator of calcium ion flux into endothelial cells of venular microvessels. We developed a method to measure the membrane potential of endothelial cells forming the walls of individually perfused microvessels under the same experimental conditions as those used to measure cytoplasmic calcium concentration and microvessel permeability. The membrane potential-sensitive fluorescent dye, bis-oxonol (1 microM), was added to the perfusate and the changes in bis-oxonol fluorescence intensity (FI) were calibrated in terms of changes in membrane potential using the cationic ionophore, gramicidin. FI changes an average of 0.625% per millivolt. The resting membrane potential of endothelial cells measured in single perfused microvessels, each calibrated individually, was 51.6 +/- 4.9 mV (n = 9). In the presence of high potassium Ringer's solutions (57.9 and 100 mM, [K+]o), the membrane depolarized 25 +/- 3 and 40 +/- 5 mV, respectively. Conversely, low potassium solutions (0.1 mM [K+]o) hyperpolarized the membrane by 23 +/- 4 mV. The endothelial membrane was also depolarized when the Na-K-ATPase was inhibited with ouabain. This method provides new data to test current hypotheses describing the role of the endothelial cell membrane potential as a modulator of microvessel permeability.
8539218	[Treatment of primary hyperhidrosis of the upper limbs by transthoracic endoscopic sympathectomy]	Primary hyperhidrosis of the upper limbs has an important impact on the subject's social and psycho-affective equilibrium. These patients have two main problems. First physicians are not sufficiently aware of the therapeutic possibilities and secondly the generally poor reputation of surgery in this indication. Transthoracic endoscopic sympathectomy has completely changed the treatment of hyperhidrosis of the upper limbs. It is now considered to be the reference treatment in severe cases. The surgical procedure is simple and allows simultaneous treatment of both sides. There is no mortality and morbidity is extremely low quantitatively and of little consequence qualitatively. The therapeutic protocol is short and immediate and long-term results are excellent in 98 to 100% of the patients.
8547739	Thrombosis and the pharmacology of antithrombotic agents.	OBJECTIVE: To provide an overview of the current state of knowledge regarding the physiology of hemostasis, the pathophysiology of thrombosis, and the pharmacology of antithrombotic agents. DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE search was conducted to identify pertinent literature published since 1984. Recently published textbooks devoted to the subjects of hematology, hemostasis, and thrombosis also were reviewed, particularly their bibliographies. The bibliographies of selected review articles also were reviewed. STUDY SELECTION: As the amount of literature was vast, only the most significant and noteworthy published studies were reviewed. Review articles and book chapters authored by researchers of international reputation also were reviewed. DATA EXTRACTION: Identified studies from the primary literature and selected reviews were analyzed carefully. Information regarding hemostasis, thrombosis, and antithrombotic drugs was extracted. Particular attention was given to data regarding drugs currently available or soon to be available on the US market. DATA SYNTHESIS: Knowledge regarding the regulation of blood coagulation has expanded substantially in recent years. Hemostasis involves the dynamic interplay of numerous intravascular constituents, including the vessel wall, circulating procoagulants and anticoagulants, platelets, and fibrinolytic proteins. Thrombosis is the abnormal formation of a clot within the vascular system. When sufficiently large, thrombi can prevent the flow of blood and nutrients to vital tissues. Thrombosis is associated with many common diseases and is among the leading causes of death in developed countries. Many drugs are now available to prevent the formation and propagation of thrombi. These agents work by different pharmacologic mechanisms and are useful in different clinical situations. CONCLUSIONS: Thrombosis research has increased our understanding of the pharmacology of antithrombotic drugs and promoted the discovery of new agents targeted more specifically toward the critical steps in pathologic clot formation. New agents have the potential for greater efficacy and fewer adverse effects. An increased understanding of hemostasis, thrombosis, and the pharmacology of antithrombotic drugs should enable the clinician to use these agents appropriately.
8554065	The gene responsible for a severe form of peripheral neuropathy and agenesis of the corpus callosum maps to chromosome 15q.	Peripheral neuropathy with or without agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACCPN) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Genealogical studies in a large number of affected French Canadian individuals suggest that ACCPN results from a single founder mutation. A genomewide search using 120 microsatellite DNA markers in 14 French Canadian families allowed the mapping of the ACCPN gene to a 5-cM region on chromosome 15q13-q15 that is flanked by markers D15S1040 and D15S118. A maximum two-point LOD score of 11.1 was obtained with the marker D15S971 at a recombination fraction of 0. Haplotype analysis and linkage disequilibrium support a founder effect. These findings are the first step in the identification of the gene responsible for ACCPN, which may shed some light on the numerous conditions associated with the progressive peripheral neuropathy or agenesis of the corpus callosum.
8558039	[Cancer of the testis in cryptorchidism. Apropos of 5 cases]	Five cases of cancer of the testicle in patients with cryptorchidism are presented. In one case the tumour occurred 16 years after cure for cryptorchidism at 15 years of age. In the other cases, the tumour developed on a testicle in an inguinal or intra-abdominal position. In two cases, it was impossible to remove the tumour which had developed on an intra-abdominal position. These patients died. These cases emphasize the importance of surgical cure in all cases of cryptorchidism, preferable before the age of 2 years, in order to improve functional prognosis and reduce the risk of cancerization. The gravity of cancer of the testicle in cases of cryptorchidism is often discovered too late.
8562386	Glass slide smears are a suitable source for RT-PCR-based analysis of chromosomal aberrations in leukaemias.	The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a well-established method to detect cytogenetic abnormalities. The handling of fresh specimens is difficult, therefore a method to use smears of blood or bone marrow as a source would be advantageous. Furthermore, such a technique would give the opportunity to investigate retrospectively bone marrow smears in leukaemias without cytogenetic results. The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of staining procedures and laboratory handling of smears. We chose CML cases as a model. We demonstrated that smears are a suitable source for PCR without loss of information caused by previous routine laboratory handling.
8565586	The prevalence of breast implants among women in the United States.	Estimates of the number of women with breast implants have varied from less than one million to over three million. Most of these appear to be extrapolations from either industry production figures or reports of surgical procedures. In late 1989 under contract to the Dow Corning Corporation, Market Facts, Inc. conducted a mail survey of 40,000 households selected to be representative of the population of the United States. They received responses from 70.7%. Based upon the data collected, 8.08 per 1,000 women in the United States reported ever having had some type of breast implant. Approximately 60% of the procedures had been done for cosmetic reasons. Most of the women were White (94.6%) and rates were highest in the South or West. Although younger women were more likely to have had implants for augmentation and older women for reconstruction presumptively following breast cancer surgery, the largest prevalences for either of the two procedures were in the 45 to 54 year old age group. Breast implant prevalence also increased in direct proportion to household income with the largest increases being related to cosmetic augmentation. Based upon the data collected in this survey, the total number of women in the United States in late 1989 who had ever had breast implants was estimated to be 815,700 (95% confidence interval: 715,757-924,729).
8567099	Hepatitis C virus infection in dialysis and clinical nephrology.	Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), a single-strand RNA virus, has recently been cloned and sequenced. It causes nearly all cases of non-A non-B post-transfusion hepatitis (NANBH), and is responsible for most of the community-acquired NANBH. Considerable progress has been made in characterizing HCV and understanding the prevalence, transmission, and natural history of HCV infection.
8567343	A multirod collimator for neutron therapy.	PURPOSE: To design, construct, and commission a multirod collimator for producing irregularly shaped fields in neutron radiation therapy. To demonstrate the reliability and applicability of this device to routine use with a superconducting cyclotron for neutron therapy. METHODS AND MATERIALS: A multirod collimator has been designed, constructed, and thoroughly tested to investigate its radiological properties; neutron transmission characteristics, beam profiles, and penumbral widths as a function of field size and depth in a phantom, and the spatial resolution of the rod array, have been measured. A wide variety of irregularly shaped fields, used routinely in neutron radiation therapy, have been produced, including fields that incorporate partial transmission blocks. The performance of the collimator has been closely monitored over a period of 20 months to accurately assess reliability. RESULTS: The multirod collimator has been in routine use for 32 months, and during this time a total of 7025 neutron fields has been treated. For the latter 20 months of this period, detailed performance records show that collimator failure has caused 28.4 h of downtime during the patient treatment day. Only 5.25 h of this downtime was experienced in the last 12 months (0.22% of the available treatment time). The results of collimator attenuation and beam profile measurements show that the radiological properties of the collimator are comparable to those of other collimator systems used for neutron radiation therapy. Isodose measurements in a water phantom show that the spatial resolution of the rods is superior to that of the leaves used in neutron multileaf collimators. The ability of the multirod collimator to produce many irregularly shaped fields commonly encountered in neutron radiation therapy has been demonstrated. Shaped fields for prostate, head and neck, soft tissue sarcomas, lung, thyroid, rectum, bladder, colon, breast, pancreas, and gynecological tumors have been produced. For some prostate cases, the device has been used to produce partial transmission blocks. CONCLUSIONS: A novel multirod collimator has been designed, constructed, and successfully applied in the routine treatment of neutron radiation therapy patients.
8570049	CT of a peripatetic intracranial foreign body.	We report the CT appearances of a low-velocity missile that lodged within the brain and which subsequently migrated spontaneously back along the entry path. We review the literature of similar instances of migration and draw conclusions about the presurgical radiological management.
8586789	The efficacy of filters used in respiratory function apparatus.	The ability of two low resistance barrier filters (Collins DC-1 and Pall Pf 305) to remove bacteria from expired air was assessed. A specially designed coupling device was used to hold each filter or a disposable plain cardboard mouthpiece a fixed distance (4.5 cm) from a blood agar plate. Volunteers performed maximal forced vital capacity manoeuvres through the assembled apparatus and bacteria impinged on to the agar plate were enumerated. Both filters allowed the transmission of approximately one-third of expired colony forming units. The efficacy of these filters for reducing the likelihood of cross-infection during spirometry is not supported by this study.
8592629	Primary hyperoxaluria type 2.	Most cases of primary hyperoxaluria are due to deficiency of hepatic peroxisomal alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase [i.e. primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1), McKusick 259900] and several hundred examples have been described since the original report in 1925. By contrast, primary hyperoxaluria type 2 (PH2, McKusick 260000) is very rare indeed with only 22 patients recorded since the original description in 1968. PH2 is characterized by hyperoxaluria and L-glyceric aciduria and is caused by deficiency of D-glycerate dehydrogenase/glyoxylate reductase. In comparison with PH1 much less is known about PH2 and considerable uncertainties remain about its frequency, clinical course and optimum management.
8610824	Chronic PTSD in Vietnam combat veterans: course of illness and substance abuse.	OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to measure the longitudinal course of specific symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and related symptoms of alcohol and substance abuse and the effects of alcohol and substances on the symptoms of PTSD. METHOD: A structured interview for the assessment of PTSD and alcohol and substance abuse, as well as other factors such as life stressors and treatment, was administered to 61 Vietnam combat veterans with PTSD. RESULTS: Onset of symptoms typically occurred at the time of exposure to combat trauma in Vietnam and increased rapidly during the first few years after the war. Symptoms plateaued within a few years after the war, following which the disorder became chronic and unremitting. Hyperarousal symptoms such as feeling on guard and feeling easily startled developed first, followed by avoidant symptoms and finally by symptoms from the intrusive cluster. The onset of alcohol and substance abuse typically was associated with the onset of symptoms of PTSD, and the increase in use paralleled the increase of symptoms. Patients reported a tendency for alcohol, marijuana, heroin, and benzodiazepines to make PTSD symptoms better, while cocaine made symptoms in the hyperarousal category worse. There was no relationship between treatment interventions and the natural course of PTSD. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that symptoms of PTSD begin soon after exposure to trauma, that hyperarousal symptoms are the first symptoms to occur, that the natural course of alcohol and substance abuse parallels that of PTSD, and that specific substances have specific effects on PTSD symptoms.
8613201	Genetic characterization of the &quot;new&quot; Harlan Sprague Dawley Dahl salt-sensitive rats.	In 1994, it was reported that Dahl salt-sensitive SS/Jr rats supplied by Harlan Sprague Dawley were genetically contaminated and resistant to the pressor effects of a high salt diet. Harlan Sprague Dawley subsequently developed new pedigree expansion and production colonies from their foundation colony to supply new, purportedly inbred, Harlan Sprague Dawley SS/Jr (S(HSD)). To evaluate the genetic integrity and salt sensitivity of thse new S(HSD), we performed genotyping (microsatellite DNA markers) and phenotyping (radiotelemetric arterial pressure) of 12 S(HSD), 16 &quot;authentic&quot; SS/Jr from the inbred colony of John Rapp (S(Rapp)), 9 Harlan Sprague Dawley salt-resistant SR/Jr (R(HSD)), and (genotyping only) 6 known &quot;contaminated&quot; Harlan Sprague Dawley Dahl SS/Jr (S*). In the genotyping studies, 20 of 22 markers revealed polymorphisms between S(Rapp) and S* and 18 were polymorphic between S(Rapp) and R(Rapp), but none of the 22 markers revealed polymorphisms between S(Rapp) and the new S(HSD). The phenotyping studies showed that during an ultra-low salt diet, mean arterial pressure was higher (P &lt; .05) in both authentic S(Rapp) (129 +/- 2 mm Hg; mean +/- SE) and new S(HSD) (120 +/- 2 mm Hg) than in R(HSD) (93 +/- 1 mm Hg). A high salt diet increased mean arterial pressure in every S(HSD) and S(Rapp). Increases in mean arterial pressure after 4 weeks of a high salt diet were significantly (P &lt; 0.05) greater in authentic S(Rapp) (+51 +/- 3 mm Hg) than in new S(HSD) (+39 +/- 3 mm Hg). In addition, salt-induced mortality was significantly greater in S(Rapp) (62.5%) than S(HSD) (8.3%) after 8 weeks (P &lt; 0.01). S(HSD) were genotypically indistinguishable from S(Rapp), had an elevated arterial pressure on a low salt diet, and had a pressor response to salt. Thus, the new S(HSD) supplied to us had several characteristics of inbred Dahl SS/Jr and did not have evidence of the previously detected genetic contamination. However, phenotypic characteristics such as body weight, salt-induced hypertension, and mortality were significantly different in S(HSD) compared with S(Rapp). This may reflect genetic differences between these two strains or differences in environmental factors and suggests that the S(HSD) and S(Rapp) may now constitute distinct substrains of Dahl SS/Jr.
8637083	Posttraumatic Budd-Chiari syndrome treated with thrombolytic therapy and angioplasty.	Injury of the hepatic veins or suprahepatic inferior vena cava is a rare cause of Budd-Chiari syndrome. Treatment of this syndrome has primarily involved hepatic venous decompression with a variety of portosystemic shunts. We report a case of thrombosis of the inferior vena cava after blunt injury managed with interventional radiologic techniques.
8638538	Concurrent 5-fluorouracil, daily low-dose cisplatin, and radiotherapy in stage IIIB cervical cancer. A phase II prospective study.	Between June 1987 and May 1991, 30 patients with Stage IIIB cervical cancers were treated using synchronous radiotherapy, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and daily low-dose cisplatin. External radiotherapy (3,600-3,960 cGy) was given to the whole pelvis in 4 weeks. Two courses of intracavitary brachytherapy were given 2 weeks later. Parametrial boost was then given. Continuous infusion of 5-FU 750 mg/m2 was given for 5 days during the first and third week of pelvic irradiation. Cisplatin (6 mg/m2) was given 30 min before every irradiation in the second and fourth week. The complete response rate was 87%. The 3-year local control rate was 77%. The 3-year overall and disease-free survival rate was 66% and 56%, respectively. Distant metastases were the major causes of treatment failure. Toxicities were acceptable. Our preliminary results indicate that this synchronous combination treatment is feasible. Further follow-up is required to determine whether this regimen has a genuine favorable impact on survival and chronic toxicity.
8642216	Prevalence rates of leprosy in Cambodia; results of a sample survey.	A total population survey was carried out in early 1994 in 13 villages around Battambang (northwest Cambodia). Coverage was 87.5% (12,992 out of 14,842). Among the 12,922 household members examined 21 known patients and 20 new patients were found. Five of the 21 known and none of the newly found patients had disabilities. Among males total prevalence rates (known and newly found patients combined) appear to rise up to the age of 25 to 34, after which rates remain roughly stable until they start to decline in the 65 to 74-year age group. Among females prevalence rates reach a plateau in the 35 to 44-year age group.
8644098	[Postoperative treatment and follow-up]	In outpatient surgery the patient leaves the hospital after a short period of observation. The initial postoperative period requires observation of the same standard as for inpatients. However, the anaesthesia and surgical techniques used should prepare for fast recovery. The challenge is to handle high patient turnover in a safe manner. The main postoperative problems are pain, nausea/vomiting and psychomotor impairment. To be able to discharge the patients safety is crucial for the success of day surgery. Well trained nurses can judge when the patient is ready to go home, provided that strict guidelines are set up by the physicians in charge. All the patients given general anaesthesia, sedation or opioids should be together with a responsible adult person until the next day. Adequate information must be given concerning what to expect during the following days, and how to respond to complications. Every day surgery unit should have its own control system to detect any problems after the treatment.
8676571	Differential inhibitory mechanisms in VPL versus intralaminar nociceptive neurons of the cat: I. Effects of periaqueductal gray stimulation.	Nociceptive thalamic units receiving afferent input from the greater splanchnic nerve (SPL) were recorded from the nucleus ventralis posterolatealis (VPL) and intralaminar nuclei in urethane-chloralose anesthetized cats. The effects of stimulating the periaqueductal gray (PAG), or the nucleus raphe dorsalis (NRD) on responses of nociceptive thalamic units were investigated. Forty-eight nociceptive specific (NS) and 20 wide dynamic range (WDR) units with SPL input were found in the shell region of the caudal VPL. Following electrical stimulation of either the ventral PAG or the NRD, responses to SPL input were inhibited in all NS and WDR units tested. Responses of these units to electrical stimulation of spinothalamic tract fibers in the ventrolateral funiculus (VLF) were also inhibited following the PAG/NRD stimulation. These results suggest that PAG/NRD stimulation-produced inhibition of both NS and WDR units may be partially mediated by an ascending antinociceptive mechanism. Intralaminar nociceptive units with SPL input were found in the nuclei centralis lateralis (CL), paracentralis (Pc), and parafascicularis (Pf). The effects of conditioning electrical stimulation of either the ventral PAG or the NRD on responses of intralaminar nociceptive units were studied. Of 113 intralaminar nociceptive units studied, 68 units were unaffected, 23 units were excited and 22 units were inhibited following the conditioning stimulation. In the units in which responses to SPL stimulation were inhibited, responses elicited by electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic reticular formation (MRF) were also inhibited. These data suggest that although there is an ascending inhibitory pathway from PAG/NRD to intralaminar nuclei, this system is far less potent compared with the ascending inhibitory system acting upon the VPL.
8677312	Emergency gastrointestinal radiology of the newborn.	Imaging plays a major role in most neonatal gastrointestinal emergencies. The role may vary from helping to establish a diagnosis, to the evaluation of associated abnormalities, to surgical planning, or to therapy for some conditions like meconium ileus or meconium plug syndrome. Plain radiographs and bowel contrast examinations serve as primary imaging modalities with ultrasound, CT scan, and MR imaging playing roles in more complex cases.
8682903	Relationships between serum free fatty acids and zinc, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: a research note.	The purpose of this study is to evaluate the relationships between serum free fatty acids (FFA) and zinc, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Forty eight children with ADHD (33 boys, 15 girls) were included in the patient group and 45 healthy volunteer children (30 boys, 15 girls) constituted the control group. The mean serum FFA level in the patient group was 0.176 +/- 0.102 mEq/L and in control group, 0.562 +/- 0.225 mEq/L (p &lt; .001). The mean serum zinc level of patient group was 60.6 +/- 9.9 micrograms/dl and that of the control group, 105.8 +/- 13.2 micrograms/dl (p &lt; .001). A statistically significant correlation was found between zinc and FFA levels in the ADHD group. These findings indicate that zinc deficiency may play a role in aetiopathogenesis of ADHD. Although we observed decreased FFA levels in ADHD cases, it is necessary to determine whether this condition is a principal cause of ADHD or is secondary to zinc deficiency.
8690287	Uterine leiomyosarcoma: analysis of treatment failures and survival.	The objective of this retrospective multicenter study was to assess the rates, times, and sites of recurrences of 126 patients with uterine leiomyosarcomas. Surgery was the initial therapy for all patients. Median follow-up of survivors was 50 months (range, 3-168 months). Of the 90 patients with stage I-II disease, 26 received postoperative irradiation and/or chemotherapy. Thirty-five (38.9%) patients developed recurrent disease after a median time of 16 months (range, 2-102 months). Recurrence was pelvic in 5 (14.3%) patients, distant in 23 (65.7%), and pelvic plus distant in 7 (20.0%). The overall recurrence rate was similar in patients who received adjuvant treatment and in those who did not. None of the 15 patients who underwent pelvic irradiation developed local recurrences, but 5 of them failed in distant sites. Of the 16 patients with stage III leiomyosarcomas, 2 died of intercurrent disease within 1 month from surgery and 11 received postoperative irradiation and/or chemotherapy. Thirteen patients developed recurrent tumor after a median time of 8 months (range, 1-21 months). Recurrence was pelvic in 3, distant in 4, and pelvic plus distant in 6 patients. Of the 20 patients with stage IV leiomyosarcomas, after surgery 6 were clinically free of disease (group A) and 14 had clinically evaluable residual disease (group B). With regard to group A, 3 patients received postoperative irradiation and/or chemotherapy. Five patients developed recurrent disease after a median time of 11 months (range, 8-16 months). Recurrence was distant in 3 patients and pelvic plus distant in 2. With regard to group B, 11 patients underwent postoperative chemotherapy. Eleven patients died after a median time of 6 months (range, 1-15 months), and 3 are still alive with clinical evidence of disease after 4, 5, and 8 months, respectively, from surgery. Cox model showed that stage (P = 0.0001), mitotic count (P = 0.0002), and age (P = 0.0048) were independent prognostic variables for disease-free survival. In conclusion, uterine leiomyosarcomas have an aggressive clinical behavior, with a propensity to recur both locally and moreover at distant sites. Tumor stage is the strongest prognostic variable. Only patients with early-stage disease have a chance of surviving, whereas the treatment of patients with advanced or recurrent disease is palliative.
8705072	Balancing skill mix--future paediatric health care provision.	Issues of &quot;cost vs quality&quot; and the needs for &quot;pairs of hands&quot; rather than &quot;pair of eyes&quot; has meant that nursing service managers are having to look closely at the skill mix of the staff they employ. This paper outlines the need to define the role of the nurse and the function of skill mix review. Arguments are discussed surrounding the issues of an all qualified nursing staff in a traditional hospital or the use of a generic &quot;multiskilled&quot; workforce within a &quot;patient-focused&quot; environment. The reasons for developing the role of the National Vocational Qualification (NVQ) Support Worker are examined and how they, and the Project 2000 trained staff nurse compare, against each other when looking for staff to employ. This paper looks at the paediatric field of health care in the light of the recommendations made by the 1991 Clothier Report to increase the number of specialist trained staff within that environment and what the future role of the children's nurse may be
8730858	Stationary phase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Like other microorganisms, the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae responds to starvation by arresting growth and entering stationary phase. Because most microorganisms exist under conditions of nutrient limitation, the ability to tolerate starvation is critical for survival. Molecular analyses have identified changes in transcription, translation, and protein modification in stationary-phase cells. At the level of translation, the pattern of newly synthesized proteins in stationary-phase cells is surprisingly similar to the pattern of proteins synthesized during exponential growth. When limited for different nutrients, yeast strains may not enter stationary phase but opt for pathways such as pseudohyphal growth. If nutrient limitation continues, the end-point is likely to be a stationary-phase cell. Based on the results of recent studies, we propose a model for entry into stationary phase in which G(o) arrest is separable from acquisition of the ability to survive long periods of time without added nutrients.
8733351	The distally based posterior tibial myofasciocutaneous island flap in foot reconstruction.	We report 3 cases of foot reconstruction with a distally based posterior tibial island flap incorporating both muscle and a fasciocutaneous part. The medial half of the soleus muscle which is included in the flap is well vascularised and can be used to fill cavities, for example after debridement of chronically infected wounds.
8735698	A patch-clamp study of delayed rectifier currents in skeletal muscle of control and mdx mice.	1. Potassium currents were measured in the extensor digitorum longus muscle of normal and mdx mice, which lack the protein dystrophin, using the cell-attached and inside-out patch clamp techniques, in the presence of asymmetrical K+ concentrations (3 mM in the pipette, 160 mM in the bath). 2. In cell-attached patches, the delayed rectifier was the most commonly found potassium channel, with a density of roughly 8 channels microns-2. Outward macroscopic currents were activated in macropatches depolarized to potentials positive to -60 mV. The probability of opening reached half-maximal values around -40 mV for control patches and -31 mV for patches from mdx mice. 3. Tail currents were linear in the range between -60 and +20 mV, reversing close to -100 mV. The single channel current at 0 mV, estimated from non-stationary analysis of variance, was used in conjunction with the slope of the linear part of the tail current to calculate the single channel conductance, yielding a value of 19 +/- 1 pS. 4. At 0 mV, the delayed rectifier inactivated with two time constants, of 70 +/- 20 ms and 600 +/- 200 ms. Prepulses of 500 ms duration to different potentials produced incomplete inactivation with inactivation reaching 50% of its maximum at -50 mV. 5. Single channel activity was recorded using small pipettes. Both single channel conductance and kinetic behaviour were in agreement with the macroscopic current data. 6. In excised patches, the delayed rectifier current ran down, unmasking other K+ channels. A Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channel of 186 pS (BK-like channel) was found frequently in patches bathed in solutions containing appropriate concentrations of calcium, especially at stronger depolarizations. A K+ channel of 63 pS was unmasked in control excised patches bathed in solutions devoid of ATP. This channel was not observed in patches excised from mdx fibers.
8746123	Nitric oxide and cancer.	The possibility that the overall process of carcinogenesis may be linked to the deficiency of nitric oxide in a biological cell is examined. A hypothetical model of how this might operate to produce subtle changes in a cell resulting in and/or facilitating carcinogenesis is suggested.
8782921	Clinical experience with the first 100 ATS heart valve implants.	Between May 1992 and March 1994, 100 consecutive patients had 119 new ATS mechanical bileaflet valves inserted (61 aortic, 50 mitral, eight tricuspid). The mean age of the patients was 63.7 (range 13-82) years. The follow-up period ranged from 5 to 27 months and was complete in all cases. Before surgery, 53 aortic valve patients were in New York Heart Association functional class III or higher. This improved to a mean of 1.3 postoperatively, all patients being in classes I or II. One patient died in hospital, and another 3 months after implantation (actuarial survival rate 98%). One patient had an embolic event 9 days after an aortic valve reoperation which caused a parietal infarction. One tricuspid valve blocked in the open position 6 weeks after implantation as a result of inadequate anticoagulation and was successfully unblocked after 2 days of intensive thrombolytic therapy. Patients were treated by mild anticoagulation without developing bleeding complications. Echocardiographic, transoesophageal and transthoracic valvular gradients compared favourably with the gradients reported in other mechanical valves (including small aortic valves). The haemodynamics were excellent without evidence of significant regurgitation. This was confirmed by an in vitro hydrodynamic evaluation of the valve using a pulse duplicator system. The valve closure caused little noise and was as a result well tolerated.
8795759	Low-dose mitomycin C trabeculectomy in patients with advanced glaucoma.	PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to analyze the efficacy and safety of low-dose (0.2 mg/ml) intraoperative mitomycin C in primary trabeculectomy. METHODS: Twenty-eight eyes of 28 patients with advanced primary open-angle glaucoma undergoing primary trabeculectomy were randomized to either mitomycin C (0.2 mg/ml) or saline solution intraoperatively for 3 min. Intraocular pressure was measured at 1 day; 1 week; 1, 3, and 6 months postoperatively; and at the final visit. RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 17.0 +/- 5.6 months for the mitomycin C group and 15.7 +/- 5.1 months for the control group. Mean intraocular pressures were significantly lower in the treated group on the first postoperative day (p = 0.021), at the 6-month interval (p = 0.001), and at the final visit (p = 0.001). At the last follow-up examination, intraocular pressure was &lt; or = 15 mm Hg in 12 (85.7%) of the mitomycin C-treated eyes and in four (28.6%) of the control eyes (p = 0.002). Life table analysis showed a significantly higher probability of intraocular pressure control in the mitomycin C group than in the control group (p = 0.0065). Choroidal effusion was observed in five (35.7%) treated eyes and two (14.3%) control eyes, whereas shallow anterior chamber were present in five (35.7%) treated eyes and one control eye (7.1%). CONCLUSION: Despite inducing a higher short-term complication rate, low-dose mitomycin C may be an alternative in the treatment of eyes with advanced glaucomatous damage requiring low final intraocular pressures.
8796870	The NADPH oxidase and chronic granulomatous disease.	Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is characterized by severe, protracted and often fatal infection, which results from a failure of the NADPH oxidase enzyme system in the patient's phagocytes to produce superoxide. The NADPH oxidase enzyme system is composed of a number of interacting components, the absence of any one of which causes failure of the system as a whole. Investigation of individuals with CGD has led to the identification of the different protein components and the genes coding for them. CGD is particularly well suited to treatment by gene therapy and is likely to be one of the earliest monogenic conditions to be successfully treated in this way.
8805321	Transcriptional elongation and cancer. Tumorigenesis.	Recent discoveries indicate that transcriptional elongation is an important regulatory step in gene expression, and that deregulation of elongation can lead to the development of certain malignancies.
8809876	Prenatal drug exposure: behavioral functioning in late childhood and adolescence.	The knowledge base on the long-term implications of prenatal drug exposure in human development is extremely limited, but suggests that children with drug-using parents are at high risk for nonoptimal development. The literature, however, provides some evidence that this risk is related to environmental factors. To date, there is no compelling evidence that history of prenatal drug exposure affects long-term development either directly or through transactions with experimental factors. This chapter has discussed how study of the long-term development of drug-exposed children requires careful conceptualization of issues of change and continuity in development as well as the role of biology and experience in development. Consideration of these issues will lead to fuller scientific understanding of development and also help the scientific literature better address questions of relevance to clinicians, program planners, and policymakers who are concerned with the welfare of drug-exposed children.
8818120	Heterogeneity in the relationship between the standard-gamble utility measure and health-status dimensions.	The authors assessed the relationship between the standard-gamble utility measure and the RAND-36 health-status dimensions, taking into account possible heterogeneity among patients in the weights they assign to different health-status dimensions. A questionnaire including both measures was completed by 68 patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. Conventional multiple regression analysis, assuming a homogeneous relationship for the total population between the standard-gamble utility and the RAND-36 health-status dimensions, demonstrated that only the dimension social functioning was significant (p &lt; 0.05), which accounted for 10% of the variation. Assuming that the population consisted of two separate classes demonstrated superior representation of the data. Latent class analysis was used to estimate the unknown parameters and class memberships. In the first class, consisting of 65% of the patients, the relationship between the standard-gamble utility and the dimension general health perception was significant. The within-R2 was 12%. The second class represented 35% of the patients and showed significant coefficients for the dimensions social functioning and role limitations due to physical problems, which accounted for 80% of the variation. The overall percentage of variation explained by latent class analysis was 49%. The results suggest that patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease belong to a variety of classes, all with class-specific relationships between the standard-gamble utility and the RAND-36 health-status dimensions.
8824967	Effect of inactivated poliovirus vaccine on the antibody response to Bordetella pertussis antigens when combined with diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus vaccine.	To determine if inactivated poliovirus vaccine combined with diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and whole-cell pertussis vaccine interferes with the immunogenicity of pertussis vaccine, we performed a randomized trial of diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine combined with inactivated poliovirus vaccine given as a single injection or as two separate injections at the same visit to infants immunized at 2, 4, and 6 months of age. A total of 84 infants were enrolled in the study; 44 received the single injection, and 40 received separate injections. Before immunization, there were no differences in antibody values between the two groups. After two vaccine doses, infants immunized with the single injection had significantly lower values of antibody to filamentous hemagglutinin (8.3 vs. 23.7 ELISA units; P &lt; .001), fimbriae (266.5 vs. 771.8 ELISA units; P &lt; 0.01), and the 69-kD membrane protein (442.2 vs. 1,352 ELISA units; P &lt; .001). After the third dose, these differences persisted, and differences were also detected for antibody to pertussis toxin (10.0 vs. 35.5 ELISA units; P &lt; .001) and a whole-bacteria antigen preparation (2,667 vs. 3,829 ELISA units; P &lt; .05). We conclude that there is a diminished antibody response to the pertussis vaccine when inactivated poliovirus vaccine is combined with the diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine.
8830621	The effects of gestation dating on the calculation of patient specific risks in Down's syndrome screening.	In Down's syndrome screening using biochemical markers, the marker concentrations are adjusted for the gestational age of the fetus, since they are known to change with gestational age. This adjustment is performed by referring to the population median of each marker for the appropriate gestational age group. The measurement of gestational age is subject to error, whatever method is used, and the population median used is actually the median of a mixture of distributions for different true gestational ages. We show how the proportions in this mixture can be estimated and how the true median corresponding to a given true gestational age can be estimated. For simplicity, we consider the case of using a single marker, namely maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein, and show that the usual estimation method has considerable bias. The effect of this mixture on the calculation of patient-specific risks is discussed and we show that detection rates can be improved by allowing for this error in the dating process. The overall detection rate is increased by about 1%. The increase in detection rate is age-dependent and for some maternal ages the increase is of the order of 5%. The comparative effects of different methods for dating are discussed.
8839603	The aorta. Aortic aneurysm, trauma, and dissection.	Because of the close relationship between the esophagus and the aorta, multiplane transesophageal echocardiography provides an excellent way to view the thoracic aorta. In this article, clinical features of aortic aneurysm, trauma, and aortic dissection are described, as is the potential use of transesophageal echocardiography in the assessment of these entities.
8844639	Effects of aging on Na(+)-pump current in rat ventricular myocytes.	This study was designed to determine if aging affects ouabain-sensitive Na(+)-pump current (Ip), an electrophysiological measure of Na,K-ATPase activity, in rat heart. Ventricular myocytes were enzymatically isolated from hearts of young adult (4-6 months of age) and aged (28-36 months of age) male Long-Evans rats. Ip was monitored using conventional whole-cell patch-clamp techniques under both maximally stimulating (85 mM intracellular Na+ with 10.8 mM extracellular K+) and 'physiological' (10 mM intracellular Na+ with 5.4 mM extracellular K+) conditions. Values were expressed relative to membrane capacitance to account for the larger cell size of the aged myocytes. Results indicated that maximal Ip is smaller (e.g. approximately 23% at the holding potential of -40 mV) in myocytes isolated from aged as compared to young adult rats. However, neither the voltage-dependence of maximal Ip nor the pump current monitored under 'physiological' conditions were affected by age in general, these data support results of previous biochemical and ion flux studies which demonstrated that aging is associated with a decline in the Na(+)-pump capacity of the myocardium.
8849475	[Spondylodiscitis after operation for lumbar disc herniation]	Postoperative spondylodiscitis (POD) is a rare but severe complication of lumbar disc surgery. There were five patients with POD among 875 patients undergoing surgery for herniated lumbar discs, in the last 16 years. For detecting risk factor of discitis, a POD group of 5 patients was matched to a control group of 870 patients with respect to sex, age, disc type and operation. In five patients with POD follow-up evaluation of clinical symptoms, laboratory data were obtained, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was performed. A significant difference between the POD group and the control group was confirmed in sex, operation time and the volume of bleeding during operation. However, there was no significant difference confirmed due to age, disc type, disc level and operative procedure. In the case of males or prolonged operation time or increase of the volume of bleeding, POD may be more frequently observed. All five patients had a period of pain relief after their operations and then reported increasing low back pain with no focal signs. At diagnosis of POD all patients had an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) greater than 30 per hour and C-reactive protein (CRP) higher than 2.5. After treatment by antibiotics, low back pain gradually receded along with decrease of ESR and CRP. About 40 days later, these patients were almost free of back pain and ESR and CRP were within normal range. MRT1-weighted image during the acute phase demonstrated remarkably decreased signal intensity with loss of distinction between vertebral body and disc space. T2-weighted image showed increased signal intensity in the adjacent vertebral bodies and end-plates. Gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted image had homogenous enhancement of vertebral body and disc space. During the subacute phase, however, T1-weighted image demonstrated moderately decreased signal intensity noted in the posteroinferior portion of the L5 vertebral body and the narrowed L5/S1 disc space. T2-weighted image showed iso signal intensity in L5 and S1 vertebral bodies. Gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted image had mild homogenous enhancement in the posteroinferior portion of the L5 vertebral body. Three months after treatment of POD, there was major signal change in neither T1 nor T2 weighted images, though T2 showed subtle abnormalities with decreased signal intensity adjacent to the L5/S1 disc space.
8850724	Adopting feminist strategies to improve women's health.	The new public health movement offers community nurses a context in which to address the continuing inequalities faced by women in society. This paper explores the use of feminism as a tool for this. It considers some of the constraints on feminist nursing practice and offers some ways forward.
8852420	Recurrent adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube presenting as leptomeningeal carcinomatosis.	Primary adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube is a rare malignant neoplasm of the female reproductive system. Unusual patterns of metastasis may be observed. Report is made of a patient with recurrent adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube, which presented as leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, as a first site of distant metastasis three years after initial diagnosis. The diagnosis was made by cytologic examination of the cerebrospinal fluid. No other sites of distant metastasis were present.
8852685	[Helicobacter pylori eradication: triple therapy versus dual therapy]	For the eradication of Helicobacter pylori using dual therapy, the combination of a PPI with clarithromycin is clearly superior to PPI and amoxicillin. At the present time, a modified triple therapy, largely a PPI plus macrolide plus imidazole antibiotics, should be given preference as a cure of Helicobacter pylori infection. The short--one week--duration of the treatment means better tolerability, fewer side-effects and improved patient compliance. The high cure rate achieved with this form of treatment results in a favourable cost-benefit ratio. Overall, this form of therapy should overcome the reservations, still to be found, regarding the use of Helicobacter pylori eradication as optimal treatment of patients with peptic ulcer.
8863272	Prodrugs of BMS-183920: metabolism and permeability considerations.	The oral bioavailability of BMS-183920, a diacidic, potent angiotensin II receptor antagonist, is low in rats (approximately 11%). In vivo studies in bile duct-cannulated rats indicated that BMS-183920 was metabolically stable and that the low bioavailability was due to incomplete intestinal absorption. Five acyl-ester prodrugs were synthesized which were 5-15 times more permeable than BMS-183920 through Caco-2 cells. However, limited studies in rats indicated that the oral bioavailability of BMS-183920 was improved only 2-fold, in the best case. The lack of a substantial increase in bioavailability was apparently due to presystemic prodrug hydrolysis or metabolism via N-glucuronidation. Bioavailability of BMS-183920 after oral dosing of a tetrazole-ester prodrug averaged 37%, the most significant improvement within this prodrug series. Interestingly, in vitro studies indicated that the tetrazole-ester prodrug was a substrate for glucuronosyl transferase; however, its rate of bioactivation (hydrolysis) was sufficiently high to provide a substantial increase in bioavailability of BMS-183920. Therefore, while prodrug modification of BMS-183920 improved Caco-2 cell permeability and oral absorption in vivo, the relative extents of hydrolysis (bioactivation) vs metabolism of the prodrug determined whether a substantial improvement in bioavailability was achieved.
8870028	Pharmacological activities of Chelidonium majus L. (Papaveraceae).	Chelidonium majus L. (Papaveraceae) has a long history as being useful for the treatment of many diseases in European countries. This plant is of great interest for its use also in Chinese herbal medicine. The plant contains, as major secondary metabolites, isoquinoline alkaloids, such as sanguinarine, chelidonine, chelerythrine, berberine and coptisine. Other compounds structurally unrelated to the alkaloids have been isolated from the aerial parts: several flavonoids and phenolic acids. C. majus extracts and its purified compounds exhibit interesting antiviral, antitumour and antimicrobial properties both in vitro and in vivo.
8883725	Human immunodeficiency virus infection and subsequent melanoma.	Immunosuppression has been known for many years to be associated with the development of skin cancer, particularly squamous cell carcinoma. The association with melanoma is less clear. This report describes 4 patients with known human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positivity who subsequently developed malignant melanoma. The subtypes and precursors of the tumors vary. Three of 4 patients treated using accepted surgical standards remained disease free an average of 33 months postoperatively. Treatment of the melanoma as in the non-HIV infected melanoma patient is advised. Epidemiological studies remain to be done to determine the significance of this association. In the meantime, melanoma remains a surgical disease and early, aggressive, standard surgical treatment is encouraged for these patients. Despite the immunocompromised state that their HIV status implies, surgical treatment offers local and regional control of disease and possibly cure.
8894275	Non-hyperbolic calcium calibration curve of Fura-2: implications for the reliability of quantitative Ca2+ measurements.	The fluorescence probe Fura-2 is widely applied for the quantitative determination of cellular free Ca2+ concentration. Generally, a hyperbolic calibration curve has been taken as a basis. The in vitro calibration of Fura-2 performed with free Ca2+ concentrations ranging from 10 nM to about 9 mM demonstrates a non-hyperbolic curve. Assuming two Ca2+ binding sites of Fura-2 dissociation constants of 190 nM and 176 microM were estimated. The analysis of the calibration data by the equation introduced by Grynkiewicz et al. [Grynkiewicz G., Poenie M., Tsien R.Y. A new generation of Ca2+ indicators with greatly improved fluorescence properties. J Biol Chem 1985; 260: 3440-3450] shows that the inclusion of Ca2+ concentrations in the range of the low-affinity binding site leads to an overestimation of the dissociation constant normally used within this method. The Rmax value conventionally estimated at a nominal saturating free Ca2+ concentration increases if concentrations in the range of the low-affinity binding site are selected for this purpose. Provided that millimolar free Ca2+ concentrations are applied for the determination of Rmax, the experimentally-estimated free Ca2+ concentration should be considerably lower than the real cellular concentration. This bias is especially to be expected if free Ca2+ concentrations exceeding the high-affinity Ca2+ binding site of Fura-2 are measured. With the use of approximately 10 microM free Ca2+ for the determination of Rmax the contribution of the low-affinity binding site is negligible. Data for cellular free Ca2+ calculated on the basis of Rmax values estimated with Ca2+ concentrations in the millimolar range should be considered with caution.
8896902	Urine samples before dinner are preferable when studying changes in endogenous nitrate production under uncontrolled dietary conditions.	Changes in nitric oxide production result in changes in nitrate excretion, but these are difficult to detect if the daily intake of nitrate varies substantially. Instead of using a sample of the combined urine produced in 24 h for analysis, we studied the urine nitrate concentration in urine discharge at various times of the day. This was done with urine samples from each of seven men after a high dietary nitrate intake, followed by a low dietary intake 24 h later. The lowest variability in nitrate concentration was found in the samples before dinner (late afternoon) (511 +/- 201 (S.D.) mumol/l). However, the pre-dinner samples after a day with a nitrate-rich meal had still a 40% increased nitrate concentration (623 +/- 147 mumol/l), when compared with samples before the high nitrate diet (440 +/- 90 mumol/l; P &lt; 0.05). This effect disappeared on the second day after the high nitrate meal (476 +/- 108 mumol/l). Similar results were found when using the nitrate/creatinine ratio. We conclude that urine samples taken before nitrate rich meals are the most reliable samples for estimating (changes in) endogenous nitrate production.
8909111	Changes in Jewish mortality and survival, 1963-1987.	From information on mortality of Jews obtained from individual death certificates and population data from surveys of the Jewish population undertaken in 1963 and 1987, age specific death rates and life expectancy of the Jewish population of Rhode Island are compared with those of the total white population for 1963 and 1987 to assess changing differentials. The Jewish mortality experience continues to differ from that of the larger population even while both groups have experienced noticeable improvements. For males, the age standardized rates have widened in favor of Jews as have the life expectancies at birth and the percentage surviving to old age. By contrast, for females, the standardized death rate has widened considerably in favor of whites, while life expectancy has improved almost identically for both groups and therefore remained about equal, as it was in 1963. Reasons for these patterns are explored through attention to differences between Jews and the general white population in death rates at particular stages of the life cycle. Jews tend to be more advantaged at all but the most advanced ages, age groups in which proportionally more of the Jewish population and Jewish deaths are concentrated.
8911943	On the short-term adaptation of eye saccades and its transfer to head movements.	During a sequence of eye saccades toward a target that is systematically displaced during initiation of the saccade, the oculomotor system adjusts saccadic amplitude and direction in less than 100 trials to directly reach the second target position. The goal of the present work was to test whether and under which conditions these short-term, adaptive modifications in eye movements are transferred from horizontal eye saccades to horizontal head-pointing movements. In the first series of experiments subjects had to execute head yaw rotations to an extent defined by verbal command (assessed movements). These head movements were not part of visually elicited gaze shifts. They were recorded before and after a period of saccadic adaptation. Saccades were adapted to reduced amplitudes by using target displacements from 30 to 20 degrees and from 40 to 30 degrees. After 40-50 trials per target displacement, the amount of eye saccade adaptation was 79% (30-20 degrees) and 97% (40-30 degrees) of the displacement amplitude. In the second series of experiments, visually triggered head movements to briefly illuminated targets (100 ms) were measured before and after adaptation. The data obtained from both series did not reveal a functionally significant transfer of saccadic adaptation to head movements. The amount of possible transfer given as a percentage of the amount of achieved adaptation was: assessed head movements, 40 degrees, 1.9%, 20 degrees, -8.6%; visually triggered movements, 40 degrees, 5.1%, 20 degrees, 10.0%. No values significantly deviated from zero.
8918125	Dental emergencies among Marines ashore in Operations Desert Shield/Storm.	The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of dental emergency visits for Marine Corps personnel ashore during Operations Desert Shield/Storm. We investigated the period of August 18, 1990, through April 19, 1991, during which 16 dental treatment facilities treated 4,776 dental emergencies in Marine Corps personnel. All dental treatment facilities maintained log books of dental treatment rendered, from which data were obtained. For the 35 weeks, a rate of 100.5 emergencies/1,000 Marines was calculated. The range, on a per week basis, was 1.4 to 4.6 emergencies/1,000 Marines. Caries, defective restorations, and endodontic complaints accounted for 54.3% of emergency visits.
8928594	[Clinical effects of verapamil in the treatment of Peyronie's disease]	Calcium antagonist increase extracellular matrix collagenase activity as well as decrease collagen, fibronectin synthesis and secretion, altering fibroblastic metabolism. Preliminary findings reports that Verapamil improves would healing; Levine (1994) suggest that intralesional calcium antagonist (Verapamil) therapy offers an economical and sensible non operative approach for the treatment of Peyronie's disease. We studied and verified the effect of Verapamil in Peyronie's plaque on 39 men. They received injections of Verapamil bi-weekly in to the plaques for 6 months. Subjectively, improvement in rigidity was observed in 23,1% and a plaque softening observed in 48,7%. Rapid resolution of pain was verified in 90,9%. Objectively, curvature improved in 50% of those in which the diagnosis of Peyronie's disease was less than one year old, but in only 10.2% when disease lasted more than one year. A decreased plaque volume was not observed. There was no toxicity related to Verapamil effect. In this nonrandomized study we retained that Verapamil appears to result in an improvement in patients with symptoms lasting less than one year. For patients without pain with symptoms related to more than one year, Verapamil had no important effect.
8940085	Movement of the Na+ channel inactivation gate during inactivation.	Phenylalanine 1489 in the inactivation gate of the rat brain IIA sodium channel alpha subunit is required for stable inactivation. It is proposed to move into the intracellular mouth of the pore and occlude it during inactivation, but direct evidence for movement of this residue during inactivation has not been presented. We used the substituted cysteine accessibility method to test the availability of a cysteine residue substituted at position 1489 to modification by methanethiosulfonate reagents applied from the cytoplasmic side. Mutation of Phe-1489 to Cys results in a small (8%) fraction of noninactivating current. Ag+ and methanethiosulfonate reagents irreversibly slowed the inactivation rate and increased the fraction of noninactivating current of F1489C but not wild-type channels. Single channel analysis showed that modification slowed inactivation from both closed and open states and destabilized the inactivated state. Depolarization prevented rapid modification of Cys-1489 by these reagents, and the voltage dependence of their reaction rate correlated closely with steady-state inactivation. Modification was not detectably voltage-dependent at voltages more negative than channel gating. Our results show that, upon inactivation, Phe-1489 in the inactivation gate moves from an exposed and modifiable position outside the membrane electric field to a buried and inaccessible position, perhaps in or near the intracellular mouth of the channel pore.
8944721	Modulation of Cl- secretion by benzimidazolones. I. Direct activation of a Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channel.	We evaluated the effects of the novel benzimidazolone, 1-ethyl-2-benzimidazolinone (1-EBIO), on Cl- secretion across T84 monolayers. 1-EBIO stimulated a sustained Cl- secretory response at a half-maximal effective concentration of 490 microM. Charybdotoxin (CTX) inhibited the 1-EBIO-induced short-circuit current (Isc) with an inhibitory constant (Ki) of 3.6 nM, whereas 293B, an inhibitor of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate-activated K+ channels, had no effect on the current induced by 1-EBIO. In contrast, CTX failed to inhibit the 293B-sensitive forskolin-induced Isc. The above results suggested that 1-EBIO may be activating the basolateral membrane Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channel (KCa) in these cells. This was further confirmed using nystatin to permeabilize the apical membrane in the presence of a mucosa-to-serosa K+ gradient and determining the effects of 1-EBIO on the basolateral K+ current (IK). Under these conditions, 1-EBIO induced a large increase in IK that was blocked by CTX. In membrane vesicles prepared from T84 cells, 1-EBIO stimulated 86Rb+ uptake in a CTX-sensitive manner; the Ki for inhibition by CTX was 3.5 nM. Similar to our intact monolayer studies, this 86Rb+ uptake was not blocked by 293B. The effects of 1-EBIO on the KCa in T84 cells was determined in excised inside-out patches. 1-EBIO (100 microM) increased the product of the number of channels and the open channel probability from 0.09 +/- 0.03 to 1.17 +/- 0.27 (n = 8); this effect on KCa activity required a minimal level of free Ca2+. Similar to its effect on T84 cells, 1-EBIO stimulated a sustained Cl- secretory current in rat colonic epithelium, which was partially blocked by CTX. Finally, 1-EBIO stimulated a sustained Cl- secretory response in primary cultures of murine tracheal epithelium. We conclude that the benzimidazolone, 1-EBIO, stimulates Cl- secretion in secretory epithelia via the direct activation of a Kca. 1-EBIO is the first pharmacological opener of this important class of epithelial K+ channels to be identified.
8960949	Can Tl-201 myocardial SPECT abnormalities in orthotopic heart recipients be explained by coronary vessel wall alterations assessed by intravascular ultrasound?	The aim of this study was to compare findings on coronary intravascular ultrasound and thallium-201 SPECT in patients following orthotopic heart transplantation. Background: No data are available on whether pathological thallium scintigraphic findings in heart recipients are based on coronary vessel wall alterations identifiable by intravascular ultrasound. Methods: 29 patients (mean age: 50.9 +/- 11.5 years; male n = 23) were investigated by means of intravascular ultrasound of selected coronary segments and thallium-201 myocardial SPECT. Patients were investigated 11.6 +/- 5.4 weeks post transplantation, a subgroup of 13 patients was re-investigated 70.2 +/- 18.4 weeks following transplantation. A total of 214 cross-sectional areas of the left coronary artery were examined using a 3.5 French intravascular ultrasound catheter to measure intimal index and the circumferential extension of a three-layer appearance of the vessel wall. Shortly after catheterisation, an ergometric stress-test was performed to examine all recipients by means of thallium-201 SPECT. In each patient, 20 segments of the left ventricle were evaluated using a score system of differentiate between persistent defects, redistribution, and reverse redistribution. A score was developed that measured the degree of inhomogeneity and severity of perfusion defects, respectively. Findings on scintigraphy were correlated to coronary intravascular ultrasound findings. Results: At first investigation, mean intimal index of all evaluated coronary cross-sectional areas was 0.06 +/- 0.1. Sixty-four cross-sectional areas demonstrated a three-layer appearance of the vessel wall, mean circumferential extension was 72 +/- 122 degrees. Thallium scintigraphy demonstrated a total of 336 (40%) pathological left ventricular segments; 168 (20%) were regarded as permanent defects, 67 (8%) demonstrated redistribution and 101 (12%) showed reverse redistribution. The score of inhomogeneity was calculated as 5.8% +/- 2.6%. In the subgroup of patients at the follow-up study, the score was 6.4 +/- 2.8%. There was no correlation between intimal index and the score, nor could any correlation be confirmed between the score and the circumferential extension of a three-layer appearance of the vessel wall. At second investigation, no significant differences of intimal index (0.05 +/- 0.07) or circumferential extension of a three-layer appearance of the vessel wall (74 +/- 118 degrees) could be confirmed. The score was slightly, but significantly increased to 8.1 +/- 4.5% at the second investigation (P &lt; 0.05). Conclusion: Early after orthotopic heart transplantation, pathologic thallium distribution patterns of the left ventricle could be observed. These pathological patterns did not correlate with the extent of diffuse coronary vessel wall alterations identifiable by intravascular ultrasound. After more than 1 year, the degree of scintigraphic abnormalities increased significantly, not accompanied by an increase of diffuse coronary vessel wall alterations.
8961975	Risk of basal cell and squamous cell skin cancers after ionizing radiation therapy. For The Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group.	BACKGROUND: Human evidence that ionizing radiation is carcinogenic first came from reports of nonmelanoma skin cancers (NMSCs) on the hands of workers using early radiation devices. An increased risk of NMSC has been observed among uranium miners, radiologists, and individuals treated with x rays in childhood for tinea capitis (ringworm of the scalp) or for thymic enlargement; NMSC is one of the cancers most strongly associated with the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Although exposure to ionizing radiation is a known cause of NMSC, it is not yet clear whether therapeutic radiation causes both major histologic types of NMSC, basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Additionally, the potentially modifying effects, such as latency, age when treated, and type of treatment, are not well understood. PURPOSE: We investigated the relative risks of BCC and SCC associated with previous radiation therapy and evaluated these risks in relation to age and time since initial treatment and the medical condition for which radiation therapy was given. METHODS: The study group comprised individual diagnosed with at least one BCC or SCC from January 1980 through February 1986, who were recruited to participate in a skin cancer prevention trial designed to test whether oral beta-carotene supplementation would reduce the risk of new NMSCs. Patients were identified through the dermatology and pathology records of academic medical centers in Hanover, NH; Los Angeles, CA; San Francisco, CA; and Minneapolis, MN. Each participant completed a questionnaire detailing lifetime residence, pigmentary characteristics, occupational and recreational sun exposure, and history of radiation therapy. At enrollment, a study dermatologist assessed skin type (tendency to burn or tan) and extent of actinic skin damage. Participants were followed with an annual dermatologic examination for an average of 4 years. Of the 5232 potentially eligible individuals, 1805 were enrolled in the trial. We excluded 112 patients who reported previous radiation therapy for skin cancer only and three with missing information on whether they were ever treated with radiation therapy, leaving 1690 patients for the analysis. Approximately 4% of the patients died or discontinued participation for other reasons during each study year. We examined time to occurrence of first new histopathologically confirmed BCC and SCC during the follow-up period in relation to history of radiation therapy (for reasons other than NMSC) using a proportional hazards model. A multiple end points survival model was used to compare the rate ratios (RRs) for BCC and SCC. We also used a longitudinal method of analysis to compute the RR of total new BCC and SCC tumors per person per study year associated with radiation therapy. Using this method, we additionally assessed the potential modifying effects of age at treatment, latency, and type of therapy. All P values were derived from two-sided statistical tests of significance. RESULTS: Among the participants we studied, 597 developed a new BCC (n = 1553 tumors) and 118 developed a new SCC (n = 179 tumors). The time to first new BCC, but not SCC, was associated with prior radiation therapy (RR = 1.7; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.4-2.0 and RR = 1.0; 95% CI = 0.6-1.7, respectively; P = .03 for the difference between the RRs). The RR of total BCC tumors was slightly higher (RR = 2.3; 95% CI = 1.7-3.1), but it was still unity for SCC (RR = 1.0; 95% CI = 0.5-1.9). BCC risk appeared to increase with younger age at exposure and time since initially treated, although these effects were only marginally statistically significant (P for trend = .06 and .07, respectively). Also, risk of BCC was more strongly related to treatment for acne (RR = 3.3; 95% CI = 2.1-5.2) than other conditions. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Our data suggest that exposure to therapeutic radiation is associated with BCC but not with SCC.
8980357	Cytokine induction of platelet activation.	Recent studies have focused on the accumulation of cytokines in stored platelet concentrates and the role that these cytokines play in mediating transfusion reactions. To elucidate any additional adverse effects that may be associated with cytokine accumulation, the authors examined whether cytokines, which normally accumulate during routine platelet storage, can cause platelet activation in vitro. Concentrations of IL-6 and IL-8 were first determined for random donor platelet concentrates on days 1 through 4 of storage. Fresh platelets were then incubated with these levels of exogenous cytokines, and activation measured by flow cytometry using a monoclonal antibody directed against p-Selectin. Significant platelet activation was observed with concentrations of cytokines which are normally present in days 3 and 4 of shelf life. The study data demonstrate that levels of cytokines that routinely accumulate in stored platelet products can affect platelet biology. Strategies to reduce cytokine generation during platelet storage may be a method to improve the function and viability of stored platelets used for transfusion.
8981817	[Geriatric consultations in a general hospital]	The increasing numbers of the elderly admitted to general hospitals, and the complexity of their problems, has increased the need for geriatric consultations. We evaluated geriatric consultations given at the Wolfson Medical Center by the geriatricians of Shmuel Harofeh Hospital. Data on 6-months of consultations in medical, surgical, urologic, neurologic, orthopedic and intensive care departments were evaluated. 7,910 elderly (65 years and over) were admitted during this period, representing 58% of all admissions; 742 (9.4%) were targeted for geriatric consultation. The largest number of consultations (525) were in the medical wards, but the highest rate of consultations was in the orthopedic ward for rehabilitation after operations for hip fractures. The selection of patients for geriatric consultation at Wolfson Hospital was done by the staff of each ward. This method differs from that in most general hospitals abroad, where selection is by geriatric teams. Despite this difference, our data show that the rates of consultations were similar. Also, the multidisciplinary teams consisted of members of the staff of each ward and the geriatric consultant. The method of geriatric consultations presented is easy to set up, simple to operate, efficient and appreciated by the medical staff of the departments.
8988241	Molecular machinery mediating vesicle budding, docking and fusion.	A general machinery buds and fuses transport vesicles which connect intracellular compartments with each other and allow communication with the extracellular environment. Cytoplasmic coat proteins deform membranes to bud vesicles and interact directly or indirectly with cargo molecules. Compartment-specific SNAREs (SNAP receptors) on vesicles and target membranes dock vesicles and provide a scaffolding for the general fusion machinery to initiate lipid bilayer fusion.
8996745	Changing patterns of bacterial nosocomial infections: a nine-year study in a general hospital.	Surveillance data on 12,944 bacterial isolates derived from nosocomial infections, reported to the Department of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases of the Hellenic Air Force and VA General Hospital over a 9-year period (1986-1994), were analyzed by the use of a microbial infection control software system. Overall, the isolation rate of Escherichia coli decreased from 25.2% in 1986 to 18.2% in 1994 and Proteus spp. from 5.3 to 2.6%. Remarkably, Pseudomonas spp. increased from 7.2 to 11.3%, Enterobacter spp. from 1.6 to 5.1%, Klebsiella spp. from 5.9 to 7.8% and Enterococcus spp. from 3 to 7.4%. Interestingly, the above phenomenon was paralleled by a significant increase in resistance rate to various antibiotics. Specifically, Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci, though they did not display any significant variation in isolation rates, showed an alarming increase in resistance rate to oxacillin, from 11 and 21% in 1986 to 51 and 75% in 1994, respectively. Enterococcus spp. sensitivity to vancomycin remained unlatered at 90%. The above-mentioned serious shift towards more resistant bacteria should be a matter of consideration.
8997011	Simple and sensitive test for thyroid hormone autoantibodies.	We presented a simple and sensitive test for thyroid hormone autoantibodies. The normal range for T4 and T3 autoantibodies in Thai people considering mean +/- 3 S.D. were 1.8-9.4 per cent and 3.1-8.6 per cent, respectively. Although positive low titer of thyroid hormone autoantibodies had almost no interference of thyroid hormone levels, high titer might cause great interference. This method can be used for screening patients who have unexpectably high levels of serum T4, T3 or discrepancy between thyroid hormone levels and clinical findings.
8997534	Environmental health.	A short history of the close connections between human health an ambient environment (environmental health) in the global and national (Czech Republic) sense is presented. Concrete tasks and prospects for the near future are mentioned, including the human ecology education programme.
8998118	Laparoscopic repair of paraesophageal hernia.	OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this report is to describe the authors' technique for the laparoscopic repair of paraesophageal hernias and the outcome in their series of patients. METHODS: Thirty patients underwent elective laparoscopic repair of paraesophageal hernias. All were pure type II paraesophageal hernias as defined by upper gastrointestinal contrast studies. All operations were performed by a single surgeon (JKE) assisted by five different chief surgical residents. The authors have used various prototypes of a laparoscopic utility belt to reduce the physician requirement to the surgeon and a first assistant. The operative setup and specific techniques of the repair are described and illustrated. A concomitant anti-reflux procedure was performed in the last 23 patients. RESULTS: Satisfactory repair using video-laparoscopic techniques was achieved in all cases. There were no deaths. Complications occurred in 8 of 30 patients. Postoperative gastroesophageal reflux developed in three of the first seven patients in whom fundoplication was not performed. Three consecutive patients had left lower lobe atelectasis believed to be related to endotracheal tube displacement during the passage of the bougie. One patient had postoperative dysphagia. There was one case of major deep venous thrombosis with pulmonary embolism. Twenty-eight of 30 patients were discharged home by postoperative day 3. Twenty-four of 30 patients had returned to normal activity by the time of their first postoperative office visit 1 week after surgery.
9006219	The cognitive orientation of compliance in short- and long-term type 2 diabetic patients.	Previous research showed that providing diabetic patients with information about diabetes is mostly insufficient for compliance. The purpose was to develop a new model for studying and promoting compliance in diabetes based on the theory of cognitive orientation (Kreitler &amp; Kreitler), which assumes that in addition to knowledge it is necessary to consider the patient's goals, values and self image. We expected cognitive contents (beliefs) to be related to compliance, more in long-term than short-term patients. The subjects were 112 Type 2 diabetic patients. They were administered a Cognitive Orientation Questionnaire of Diabetic Compliance assessing cognitive contents in terms of four belief types (goals, norms, self and general) referring to relevant themes (e.g. discipline, reducing tensions). Compliance was assessed in terms of physical measures (HbA and number of complications) and behavioral measures based on information provided by the medical staff about glucose testing, taking medication, diet, exercise, independence, and follow-ups. The results showed that beliefs predicted (by discriminant analyses) the compliance measures more in long-terms and enabled describing the personality dynamics of compliers. The findings support a cognitive model of compliance. It predicts better in long-term than short-term diabetic patients.
9014807	Isomerism of the atrial appendages associated with 22q11 deletion in a fetus.	There is a strong association between prenatally diagnosed structural heart disease and fetal chromosomal abnormalities. Isomerism of the atrial appendages is an exception to this because the fetal karyotype is usually normal in this condition. A case of atrial isomerism diagnosed antenatally with a normal female karyotype but with a microdeletion of chromosome 22q11 is reported.
9036547	[Elastic plate osteosynthesis, biomechanics, indications and technique in comparison with rigid osteosynthesis]	Classical stable plate osteosynthesis with its anatomical repositioning, absolute stability between fragments and medial support should only be applied to joint fractures and spongy bone. In cortical bone, the anatomical reposition connected with the plate promotes bone necrosis along the fracture and prevents callus formation. Direct cortical synthesis, a method also known as &quot;primary bone healing&quot;, serves the bone's revascularisation and is not necessarily aimed at healing. Thus, this may also be termed &quot;necrosis healing&quot;. Along the shaft of long bones, elastic plate osteosynthesis, a biological method, is safer than and superior to the rigid technique. This even applies to short oblique and transverse fractures insofar as nailing does not appear feasible. Elasticity is achieved by leaving a flexible stretch of at least 2-4 holes. i.e. as long as possible, without screws over the fracture and by employing a titanium plate. Thus, there is no punctate fatigue leading to plate breakage. The fitting of third fragments is deliberately left out. The same applies to all kinds of compression with lag screws, tension devices or DC-gliding holes- and this with the intention of allowing micromovements in the fracture's fissure. Periost and muscle are not removed and the fracture is not examined. Healing occurs spontaneously via a fixating callus forming within the first 3-6 weeks out of the periost-soft tissue combination. Histomorphological investigation dates the first woven-bone bridges between the fragments to 3 weeks subsequent to the accident. In Gttingen University trauma centre, 87 fractures have been attended to over 2 years using this technique. Despite considerable soft-tissue damage, no delayed bone healing, pseudoarthrosis or bone infection has been observed. The risks of elastic plate osteosynthesis lie in unbiological and exaggerated reposition methods, too short a flexible stretch, and insufficient anchorage of the screws.
9038839	A redox O2 sensor modulates the SR Ca2+ countercurrent through voltage- and Ca(2+)-dependent Cl- channels.	The activity of a relatively small Cl- (SCl) channel in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) vesicles of rabbit skeletal muscle was preserved following their reconstitution into lipid bilayer. Reducing PO2 from approximately 150 to &lt; 1 Torr in the cis-side (cytosolic) reversibly inhibited the channel activity within 2 min. The modulatory effects, deduced from reduction in Cl- current levels and in kinetic parameters of channel activation, in normoxic (PO2 approximately 150 Torr) and hypoxic (low PO2 &lt; 1 Torr) solutions were mimicked by oxidizing and reducing agents, respectively. Cl- current transitions to the main open conductance state were increased by 100 microM of the specific sulfhydryl (SH)-oxidizing agent 4,4'-dithiodipyridine and inhibited by the SH-reducing agent glutathione (GSH) with a Hill coefficient of 8 and inhibition constant of approximately 3.1 mM. The inhibitory effects of 5 mM [GSH]cis were prevented by prior addition of 1 mM iodoacetamide, an alkylating agent, to the cytosolic side of the channel. These findings suggest that an SH-dependent mechanism (redox couple, e.g., reduced/oxidized glutathione) could be involved in the gating of the SCl channel in such a way that SH oxidation (GSSH) favors the open state of the channel, and SH reduction (GSH), which mimics the inhibitory action of low PO2, favors the closed state.
9049488	Premature cell ageing and evolution of diabetic nephropathy.	The rate of development and progression of renal disease varies greatly in insulin-dependent diabetic (IDDM) patients. The cellular and molecular reasons for this difference are largely unknown but could be related to early cell differentiation, a phenomenon recently reported in IDDM patients with nephropathy. In this study we compared cell differentiation and cell volume between IDDM patients with and without nephropathy and investigated the cell ageing characteristics in relation to the rate of evolution of renal disease in the IDDM patients with diabetic nephropathy. Cell volume was larger and the percentage of post-mitotic fibrocytes was higher in skin fibroblasts derived from IDDM patients with diabetic nephropathy compared to those from IDDM patients without kidney disease (mean +/- SD in arbitrary units 817.3 +/- 25.7 vs 760 +/- 32.8; p = 0.005; and mean +/- SD % 33.6 +/- 11.8 vs 20.8 +/- 10; p = 0.02 respectively). Analysis of the interaction of the time to proteinuria (TTP) and the rate of change of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) with glycaemic control, arterial blood pressure and cell volume and the state of cell differentiation showed that glycated haemoglobin and the percentage of post-mitotic fibrocytes were negatively correlated to TTP (r = -0.68; p = 0.008; r = 0.52; p = 0.05 respectively) and positively associated with the rate of change of GFR (r = 0.76; p = 0.03; r = 0.56; p = 0.037 respectively). Cell volume was negatively correlated to TTP (r = -0.53; p = 0.05). Diastolic blood pressure was also related to the rate of GFR change (r = 0.56; p = 0.039). In a multiple linear regression analysis glycated haemoglobin maintained its significance independent relationship with TTP at the 1% level, while the strength of the association between the percentage of post-mitotic cells and cell volume was reduced to the 11 and 9% level, respectively. Cultured skin fibroblasts from IDDM patients with nephropathy show signs of early differentiation. Glycaemic control is a key factor in the rate of onset of proteinuria and different rates of cell ageing appear to contribute to the rate of development and progression of diabetic nephropathy. Their interaction may be responsible for the severity of renal involvement in susceptible IDDM patients.
9057785	Adverse drug reactions from birth to early childhood.	Neonates and older infants are a diverse group of children, quite different from their older counterparts. Adverse drug reactions may have profound immediate, delayed, and long-term implications for their neurologic and somatic development. The intrauterine, neonatal, and infancy periods are the only stages in life in which one is exposed to and affected by drugs administered to another person, the mother. In addition, because of the fragility of the neonate and the complexity of their illnesses, their pharmacotherapy is frequently complicated with misadventure and adverse drug reactions that are unavoidable or difficult to assess. Because of their differences in morphology and disease process and treatments, infants and children experience a different range of adverse drug reactions. These reactions are not necessarily predictable from the adult experience. Despite the advances made in the field of pediatric adverse drug reactions and the lessons learned through the misfortunes involving children, children continue to suffer. Sixty years after the Elixir of Sulfanilamide-Massengill disaster, children continue to be given medications with diethylene glycol in developing countries. Pediatricians, pharmacologists, and others must continue to be vigilant and active in preventing, monitoring, and treating adverse drug reactions in children. Learning from mistakes of the past will improve the health of children by preventing mistakes in the future.
9064055	[Three cases of ovarian cancer after ovulation induction for infertility]	We report three cases of ovarian carcinoma associated with fertility drugs. Two patients were hyperstimulated by clomiphen citrate (CC). The third had hMG + CC. Two of these patients had a Borderline ovarian carcinoma and the third had an invasive ovarian carcinoma associated with endometrial carcinoma.
9072834	[Surgical treatment of cervical spondylotic myelopathy in the Czech and Slovak Republic in 1994]	The authors investigated the state of surgery on account of cervical spondylosis and in particular spondylogenic cervical myelopathy in the Czech and Slovak Republic in 1994. They assessed the number of operated patients, surgical methods, indication criteria and the diagnostic strategy of different departments. The total number of patients operated on account of cervical spondylosis in 1994 was 347, incl. 113 on account of cervical spondylogenic myelopathy. As to surgical techniques in the majority the anterior approach was selected (Smith-Robinson's method). Laminectomy was performed in 14 and laminoplasty in 22 cases. The number of operated patients is, as compared with the frequency of similar operations in the United States, six times lower. As all departments where enquiries were made operate every cervical compression regardless of the degree of functional deficiency, this may reflect inadequate diagnosis of the disease.
9074817	Uptake of dodecanedioic acid by isolated rat liver.	The uptake of dodecanedioic acid (C12); a dicarboxylic acid with 12 carbon atoms, was studied in the isolated perfused rat liver. Fifty mumol of C12 were injected as a bolus into the perfusing liver solution. The concentration of C12 in perfusate samples taken over 2 h from the beginning of the experiments were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography. An in vitro experimental session was performed to determine the binding curve of C12 to defatted bovine serum albumin. These data were then used to compute the perfusate C12 free fraction. The number of binding sites on the albumin molecule was equal to 4.29 +/- 0.21 (S.E.), while the affinity constant was 6.33 +/- 0.87 x 10(3). M-1. Experimental values of perfusate C12 concentration versus time were individually plotted and fitted to a monoexponential decay for each liver perfused. The predicted C12 concentration at time zero averaged 0.354 +/- 0.0375 mumol/ml. Prom this value the apparent volume of distribution of C12 was obtained and corresponded to 153.02 +/- 14.56 ml. The disappearance rate constant from the perfusate was 0.0278 +/- 0.0030 min-1. The C12 half life was 26.6 +/- 2.3 min. The mean hepatic clearance from the perfusate was 4.08 +/- 0.38 ml/min. In conclusion, C12 is quickly taken up by the liver so that in about 100 min it was completely cleared from the perfusate.
9081307	Enhancement of lytic enzyme production resulting from replacement of the usual morphological variant of industrial lysosubtilin producer.	Lytic enzyme production has been increased by 1.3 times as well as the ratio of these enzymes activity to undesirable amylolytic activity by about 1.5 times as the result of the replacement of usual morphological variant P by variant R of industrial lysosubtilin producer Bacillus subtilis SK-52 leading to a 10% lower selling price per unit of the final product.
9124592	Effects of mononuclear cells on pulmonary arteries from rejecting transplanted lungs.	Experiments were designed to determine responses of pulmonary arteries from an acutely rejecting, transplanted lung to rejection-activated mononuclear cells. Pulmonary arteries and macrophage-depleted mononuclear cells were obtained from unoperated dogs (control) and dogs with rejecting single lung allotransplants (transplanted, rejecting). In some arteries, the endothelium was removed deliberately. Pulmonary arteries were suspended for measurement of isometric force in organ chambers. Contractions to potassium chloride (60 M) were greater in rings of pulmonary arteries from rejecting compared with control dogs. Mononuclear cells from both control and transplanted dogs caused cell number-dependent contractions of autogenous pulmonary arteries. Contractions to cells were decreased when the endothelium was present only in arteries from control dogs; these contractions were increased by the L-arginine analog N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (10(-4) M) but not by indomethacin (10(-5) M). Contractions to mononuclear cells were reduced by superoxide dismutase (150 U/ml) and catalase (1,200 U/ml) in arteries without endothelium from control but not transplanted dogs. In arteries from transplanted dogs, contractions to mononuclear cells were reduced by desferoxamine (10(-3) M). Results suggest that interactions between mononuclear cells and pulmonary arteries are modified during rejection of lung allografts so that, during rejection, 1) endothelium-derived nitric oxide no longer antagonizes contractions to substances produced by the mononuclear cells and 2) contractions of smooth muscle from rejecting arteries to mononuclear cells may be mediated by radicals other than superoxide.
9129223	Photoprotective effect of esterified glutathione against ultraviolet B-induced sunburn cell formation in the hairless mice.	Previously we showed a protective role of endogenous glutathione (GSH) in ultraviolet B (UVB) injury. Moderate UVB exposure to hairless mice receiving oral treatment with buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of GSH synthesis, resulted in a greater number of SBCs in the epidermis. The evidence led to the hypothesis that increasing the level of endogenous GSH in the skin may reduce the skin damage caused by a high dose of UVB irradiation. Since systemic administration of a reduced form of GSH (reduced GSH) is understood to have poor permeability into the cells, in the current study we investigated transportability of esterified GSH and photoprotective effect of reduced GSH and the esterified derivative against UVB injury in vivo. Oral administration of esterified GSH revealed increased cutaneous GSH level more effectively than did reduced GSH. The number of sunburn cells (SBC) formed was significantly depressed in the skin exposed to UVB in mice treated with esterified GSH as compared with non-GSH- or reduced GSH-treated mice. The suppressive effect of esterified GSH was prominent in BSO-treated animals.
9135316	Validation of thoracic electrical bioimpedance as a porcine research tool.	We have compared the accuracy of two methods of measuring cardiac output, thoracic electrical bioimpedance (TEB) and thermodilution (TD), in pigs. We studied four anaesthetized pigs, producing 145 paired cardiac output values over a range of TD cardiac outputs of 2.6-12.6 litre min-1. TEB cardiac output was less than that measured by TD, by a constant factor throughout the observed range of values, because of differences in porcine thoracic shape. The Pearson product moment correlation coefficient suggested a good correlation (r = 0.984, P &lt; 0.001). More importantly, analysis by the Bland and Altman statistical method suggested a high level of agreement, with 95% confidence intervals of +/- 1.0 litre min-1. These results suggest that TEB can be used as a satisfactory method to measure cardiac output in porcine models.
9138699	Cellular localization of the inhibitory action of abruquinone A against respiratory burst in rat neutrophils.	1. The possible mechanisms of action of the inhibitory effect of abruquinone A on the respiratory burst in rat neutrophils in vitro was investigated. 2. Abruquinone A caused an irreversible and a concentration-dependent inhibition of formylmethionylleucyl-phenylalanine (fMLP) plus dihydrocytochalasin B (CB)- and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-induced superoxide anion (O2.-) generation with IC50 values of 0.33 +/- 0.05 microgram ml-1 and 0.49 +/- 0.04 microgram ml-1, respectively. 3. Abruquinone A also inhibited O2 consumption in neutrophils in response to fMLP/CB and PMA. However, abruquinone A did not scavenge the generated O2.- in xanthine-xanthine oxidase system and during dihydroxyfumaric acid (DHF) autoxidation. 4. Abruquinone A inhibited both the transient elevation of [Ca2+]i in the absence of [Ca2+]o (IC50 7.8 +/- 0.2 micrograms ml-1) and the generation of inositol trisphosphate (IP3) (IC50 10.6 +/- 2.0 micrograms ml-1) in response to fMLP. 5. Abruquinone A did not affect the enzyme activaties of neutrophil cytosolic protein kinase C (PKC) and porcine heart protein kinase A (PKA). 6. Abruquinone A had no effect on intracellular guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic GMP) levels but decreased the adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic AMP) levels. 7. The cellular formation of phosphatidic acid (PA) and phosphatidylethanol (PEt) induced by fMLP/ CB was inhibited by abruquinone A with IC50 values of 2.2 +/- 0.6 micrograms ml-1 and 2.5 +/- 0.3 micrograms ml-1, respectively. Abruquinone A did not inhibit the fMLP/CB-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation but induced additional phosphotyrosine accumulation on proteins of 73-78 kDa in activated neutrophils. 8. Abruquinone A inhibited both the O2.- generation in PMA-activated neutrophil particulate NADPH oxidase (IC50 0.6 +/- 0.1 microgram ml-1) and the iodonitrotetrazolium violet (INT) reduction in arachidonic acid (AA)-activated cell-free system (IC50 1.5 +/- 0.2 micrograms ml-1) 9. Collectively, these results indicate that the inhibition of respiratory burst in rat neutrophils by abruquinone A is mediated partly by the blockade of phospholipase C (PLC) and phospholipase D (PLD) pathways, and by suppressing the function of NADPH oxidase through the interruption of electron transport.
9144053	The pathophysiology of tension pneumothorax in ventilated swine.	It remains unclear as to whether the cardiovascular collapse observed in tension pneumothorax (TP) is strictly a mechanical pressure-related phenomenon or secondary to hypoxemia. This study describes the pathophysiologic changes associated with a surgically induced progressive TP in a ventilated swine model. With a balloon occlusion catheter surgically placed into the pleural space, progressive volumes of pneumothorax were created in six anesthetized pigs on positive-pressure ventilation. Air was introduced into the right hemithorax in 100-mL increments every 4-5 min, with measurements of heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), central venous pressure (CVP), mean intrapleural pressure (MIP), oxygen saturation (O2%), arterial blood gas (ABG), and cardiac output (C.O.). With the induced progressive TP, results showed that O2% measures decreased immediately and continued to decline throughout the experiment to levels below 50% prior to cardiovascular collapse. The MAP and HR remained relatively stable until approximately 57% total lung capacity progressive TP (600 mL) was reached. At this point, a significant decline in MAP and increase in HR was noted, indicating tension physiology. The C.O. showed a small but significant decrease after 200 mL of air was injected, with a progressive decline after this point. At > 97% total lung capacity TP, lethal cardiovascular collapse occurred in all animals and was associated with an abrupt drop in C.O., HR, and MAP. There was a concurrent equalization of MIP with CVP at the point of collapse. Arterial blood gas measures correlated with O2% trends during the trials. We conclude that the findings of this study support the alternative hypothesis that significant hypoxemia occurs early and precedes hypotension in ventilated animals with TP. Occlusive mechanical compression, suggested by equalization of MIP and CVP, is probably a late event.
9147414	Chronic nicotine treatment prevents neuronal loss in neocortex resulting from nucleus basalis lesions in young adult and aged rats.	In both young adult and aged rats, we tested the ability of chronically administered nicotine to rescue neocortical neurons from transneuronal degeneration resulting 5 mo after ibotenic acid (IBO) lesioning of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM). Young adult (2-3 mo-old) and aged (20-22-mo-old) rats were given unilateral infusions of IBO (5 mu g/1 mu L) at two sites within the NBM. Following surgery, animals began receiving either daily ip injections of nicotine (0.2 mg/kg) or saline vehicle. Treatment continued for 5 mo, at which time all animals were sacrificed and their brains processed histologically. For each brain, computer-assisted image analysis was then used to analyze the unlesioned (left) and lesioned (right) side of five non-consecutive brain sections from parietal cortex Layers II-IV and V. NBM lesioning in both young adult and aged vehicle-treated rats resulted in a significant 16-21% neuronal loss ipsilateral to NBM lesioning in neocortical Layers II-IV. Aged NBM-lesioned rats also exhibited a significant 12% neuronal loss in neocortical Layer V ipsilaterally. By contrast, those NBM-lesioned young adult and aged rats that received daily nicotine treatment postsurgery did not show any ipsilateral neuronal loss in the same parietal cortex areas, indicating that chronic nicotine treatment prevented the transneuronal degeneration of neocortical neurons resulting 5 mo afer NBM lesioning.
9147958	Suppression of actively induced experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis by CD4+ T cells.	BACKGROUND: Helper/inducer T cells that exert an inhibitory effect on disease induction have been recently found in many experimental models. In order to clarify the mechanisms of spontaneous remission of experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis (EAU), we investigated the inhibitory effect and the phenotype of the post-recovery suppressor cells. METHODS: In a series of experiments, we separated spleen cells of rats that had recovered from EAU. Three groups of spleen cells, CD4+ T, CD8+ T and B cells, were each adoptively transferred into naive syngeneic rats before active immunization with retinal soluble antigen (S-Ag) and Freund's complete adjuvant or passive immunization with uveitogenic T cells from donor rats. Inflammation was examined clinically and histologically. RESULTS: The development of EAU could be significantly prevented by adoptive transfer of CD4+ T cells, whereas CD8+ T cells could not suppress the onset. However, post-recovery CD4+ T cells failed to inhibit EAU induced by passive immunization with uveitogenic T cells. CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that CD4+ post-recovery (suppressor) T cells may play an important role in the remission of EAU.
9149311	Effects of acute or chronic administration of risperidone on motor and sexual behavior of male rats.	A number of experiments were carried out to explore the behavioral profile of a novel antipsychotic, risperidone, after acute or chronic administration, in a dose range of 0.1-10 mg kg-1. This drug did not affect the acquisition and retention of avoidance behaviors in a dose of 0.1 mg kg-1, either after acute or chronic administration. Higher doses induced a inhibited acquisition and a facilitated extinction (only after chronic treatment) of active avoidance behavior, but no significant effect on the retention of passive avoidance responses. In contrast, haloperidol inhibited the acquisition and facilitated the extinction of active avoidance behavior, and reduced the retention of passive avoidance reaction at the dose of 0.1 mg kg-1 injected either acutely or chronically. Ambulation and rearing of rats rated in an open field was increased by risperidone injected acutely at the dose of 1 mg kg-1. Under the same experimental conditions, grooming appeared to be reduced. In the same test, acute or chronic haloperidol 1 or 10 mg kg-1 inhibited all behavioral items. Furthermore, in contrast to haloperidol, the acute or chronic administration of risperidone in a dose range of 0.1-10 mg kg-1 did not substantially induce catalepsy and did not affect apomorphine-induced stereotypies. Also, the dose of 0.1 mg kg-1 induced a facilitation of male sexual behavior by increasing the frequency and reducing the latency of mountings, intromissions and ejaculations, while haloperidol 1 or 10 mg kg-1 inhibited this behavior. These findings suggest that the pharmacological profile of risperidone differs from that of classical neuroleptics, like haloperidol, probably due to different mechanism or site of action.
9152700	Body image in obese women before, during, and after weight loss treatment.	Body image, as measured by the Appearance Evaluation and Body Areas Satisfaction scales of the Multidimensional Body-Self Relations Questionnaire (T.F. Cash, 1994b), was assessed in 59 obese women before, during, and after 48 weeks of weight loss treatment. Before treatment, positive ratings of body image were associated with higher levels of self-esteem, lower levels of dysphoria, and fewer previous diets. After 24 weeks and a mean weight loss of 19.4 kg (SD = 6.5), participants showed significant (p &lt; .0001) improvements in body image. A small weight gain from Week 24 to Week 48 was associated with a slight but significant worsening in both measures of body image. Nevertheless, after 48 weeks and a mean weight loss of 16.3 kg (SD = 7.1), body image was significantly improved from baseline (p &lt; .0001). Changes in body image were not related to changes in weight. Future studies are needed to separate the effects of treatment and weight loss on body image in obese persons.
9157134	Rapid identification of clinically significant species and taxa of aerobic actinomycetes, including Actinomadura, Gordona, Nocardia, Rhodococcus, Streptomyces, and Tsukamurella isolates, by DNA amplification and restriction endonuclease analysis.	A previously described PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) identification schema for Nocardia that used an amplified 439-bp segment (amplicon) of the 65-kDa heat shock protein gene was evaluated for potential use with isolates of all clinically significant aerobic actinomycetes. The study included 28 reference (American Type Culture Collection) strains and 198 clinical isolates belonging to 20 taxonomic groups. Of these 198 isolates, 188 could be differentiated by this PCR-RFLP method. Amplicons from all aerobic actinomycete isolates lacked BstEII recognition sites, thereby distinguishing them from those of mycobacteria that contain one or more such sites. Of 29 restriction endonucleases, MspI plus HinfI produced RFLP patterns that differentiated 16 of the 20 taxa. A single RFLP pattern was observed for 15 of 20 taxa that included 65% of phenotypically clustered isolates. Multiple patterns were seen with Gordona bronchialis, Nocardia asteroides complex type VI, Nocardia otitidiscaviarum, Nocardia transvalensis, and Streptomyces spp. Streptomyces RFLP patterns were the most heterogeneous (five patterns among 19 isolates), but exhibited a unique HinfI fragment of > 320 bp. RFLP patterns that matched those from type strains of Streptomyces albus, Streptomyces griseus, or Streptomyces somaliensis were obtained from 14 of 19 Streptomyces isolates. Only 10 of 28 isolates of N. otitidiscaviarum failed to yield satisfactory amplicons, while only 6 of 188 (3.2%) clinical isolates exhibited patterns that failed to match one of the 21 defined RFLP patterns. These studies extended the feasibility of using PCR-RFLP analysis as a rapid method for the identification of all clinically significant species and taxa of aerobic actinomycetes.
9181674	Synthesis and biological properties of some 2H-1-benzopyrano[7,8-b][1,4]benzodioxin-2-ones.	The synthesis of 2H-benzopyrano[7,8-b][1,4]tetrahydrobenzodioxin-2-ones and 2H-benzopyrano [7,8-b][1,4]benzodioxin-2-ones is reported. This class of compounds, prepared with the aim of obtaining new monofunctional photosensitizing drug, appears to be ineffective upon UVA irradiation but shows a moderate but significant activity in the dark.
9182388	[Segmental &quot;portal hypertension&quot;. A rare cause of severe tractable variceal bleeding]	We present a 33 year-old man with massive upper gastrointestinal bleeding caused by a rare form of segmental portal hypertension. The patient developed a pancreatic abscess, which caused an isolated thrombosis in the splenic vein and the development of pronounced collaterals and bleeding fundus varices. The patient underwent splenectomy and recovered quickly hereafter. The literature is sparse on severe bleeding complications due to acute pancreatitis. The present case emphasizes the importance of recognition of unusual manifestations of common clinical conditions.
9188995	Correlation of microhardness and wear in differently eroded bovine dental enamel.	The purpose of the study was to compare the microhardness data of differently eroded enamel surfaces with the wear caused by toothbrushing. Sixty bovine enamel specimens were polished and prepared for microhardness determination. The polished surfaces were covered with tape except for a 1.3 x 10.0 mm window. Fifteen specimens each were stored in an erosive beverage (Sprite Light) for either 1, 5 or 15 min. Each specimen was immersed in 10 ml of the beverage. The remaining 15 specimens were not eroded. Interferometrical analysis revealed that substance loss after 15 min of erosion was negligibly low (about 75 mm). In all specimens Vickers microhardness determinations were conducted on eroded (= final hardness) and non-eroded (= initial hardness) enamel surfaces. The specimens were subsequently submitted to toothbrushing abrasion using a slurry consisting of 1 g non-fluoridated dentifrice in 5 ml artificial saliva. The total amount of tooth wear due to erosion and subsequent abrasion was profilometrically evaluated. Statistical analysis revealed a significant decrease in hardness and a significant increase in wear with increasing time of storage in the erosive beverage. Overall regression analysis yielded a statistically significant correlation between both initial and final hardness and the amount of tooth wear. The correlation of abrasion and final hardness could be described by a quadratic mathematical function. It is concluded that the susceptibility of eroded enamel to toothbrushing abrasion can be correlated with Vickers microhardness values, thereby suggesting an overproportionate increase of abrasion with decreasing hardness values.
9193835	Prognostic factors and early resumption of cyclosporin A in renal allograft recipients with thrombotic microangiopathy and hemolytic uremic syndrome.	Biopsy-proven thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) was found in 22 of 436 (5%) renal transplant recipients, with similar incidence in recipients of cadaver or living related allografts. All patients with TMA presented different degrees of severity of the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Prognosis was poor when HUS occurred shortly after transplant in recipients of cadaveric kidneys (55% graft loss). It was more favorable when HUS occurred later in the post-transplant course or in recipients with allografts from living related donors, irrespective of time of occurrence. Other factors such as extent of TMA, degree of thrombocytopenia, hemolysis or renal dysfunction were not predictive of graft loss. Cyclosporine was resumed in 14 of 16 recipients shortly after clinical recovery without recurrence of HUS. In conclusion, HUS carries poor prognosis when occurring shortly after transplant in cadaver kidney recipients. Once the graft function improves, cyclosporine can be safely resumed.
9195430	Major vascular malformations of the upper extremity: long-term observation.	Vascular malformations of the upper extremity continue to be a therapeutic challenge to the hand surgeon. In the past 22 years, the authors treated 17 patients with major vascular malformations of the upper extremity. The lesions were evaluated with the aid of plain radiographs, angiography, and histology. Thirteen of the patients were female and 4 were male. The average age at treatment was 18 years, ranging from birth to 64 years. The average follow-up period was 12 years, ranging from 4 months to 36 years. The main indications for surgery were pain, progressive enlargement, neurologic compromise, diminished function, or a combination of these. The progression of these lesions under observation led to surgical management in all cases. A total of 36 excisions, 3 embolizations, and 4 amputations were done. Postoperative angiograms were obtained in selected individuals. Diffuse lesions defied total surgical removal. Recurrence and persistence was evident in 12 of the 17 patients. A knowledge of the progressive nature of these lesions and the need for long-term observation are the keystones to the successful management of these challenging yet unresolved problems.
9201890	Studies on mosquitoes (Diptera:Culicidae) and anthropic environment. 12-host-seeking behaviour of Anopheles albitarsis s.l. in south-eastern Brazil.	Results obtained with Anopheles albitarsis s.l. catches mainly performed through human bait at the Ribeira Valley region, SP (Brazil), are reported. Two species of the complex were recognized, namely An. albitarsis s.s. and species B. This latter predominated both in the rice fields and in the dwelling environments. The crepuscular rhythms showed an unimodal sunset pattern with most blood-seeking females caught during dusk. The absence of differences between indoor and outdoor behavior was confirmed for both species of the complex.
9208112	Excellent long-term survival after allogeneic marrow transplantation in patients with severe aplastic anemia.	Between 1982 and 1996, 20 patients (10 male, 10 female) with severe aplastic anemia (SAA) with a median age of 25 years (17-37 years), received grafts from an HLA-identical sibling (n = 17), HLA-identical unrelated donor (n = 2) or identical twin (n = 1). The median time from diagnosis to marrow transplantation (BMT) was 15 months (range 1-96 months). More than half of the patients had received more than 10 units of red blood cells or platelet transfusions prior to BMT. Pretransplant immunosuppression consisted of cyclophosphamide (CY) alone (n = 10), CY in combination with total body irradiation (n = 8), and CY and antithymocyte globulin (n = 2). For graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis methotrexate (MTX) alone (n = 9) or MTX with cyclosporin A (n = 10) were given. One patient died on day 18 after marrow grafting due to infection; all other patients had complete and sustained engraftment (95%). Eight patients developed acute GVHD (42%), nine patients chronic GVHD (53%) including four with extensive disease manifestation. One patient experienced a secondary malignancy 11 years after BMT. Eighteen patients followed for a median of 9.45 years (0.42-14.7 years) have sustained hematological reconstitution and are alive and well with a Karnofsky performance score of at least 90%. Thus, excellent long-term survival and low morbidity make allogeneic or syngeneic BMT the treatment of choice for younger patients with severe aplastic anemia.
9212339	Environmental degradation of polyacrylamides. II. Effects of environmental (outdoor) exposure.	The environmental fate of a polyacrylamide thickening agent (PATA), formulated without and with a glyphosate-surfactant herbicide (GH), was examined under various environmental situations: formulation in surface water and ground water, volatility, and soil mobility. Environmental Fate of PATA in Surface Water and Ground Water: PATA was formulated at four concentrations in distilled-deionized water, three surface water samples, and two ground water samples, without and with a GH. Solutions were placed in glass bottles, covered with plastic wrap, and exposed to environmental (outdoor) conditions for 6 weeks. Acrylamide and ammonium concentration, pH, and bacterial and fungal populations were measured weekly. All solutions in this portion of the study had a homogeneous milky appearance but the conclusions of the study were nearly transparent. The results of this study suggest that polyacrylamide can degrade to acrylamide under environmental conditions. Statistically, there was no linear correlation between the various parameters measured. Volatility: PATA was formulated without and with GH. Each solution plus an acrylamide standard (positive control) was placed in a glass beaker and exposed to environmental (outdoor) conditions for 6 days. Acrylamide concentration, ammonium concentration, pH, and solution volume were measured daily. Acrylamide and ammonium concentrations increased during the study in all formulations, except when solutions evaporated to dryness. pH did not change greatly over the course of the study for these samples. Those solutions containing PATA had a homogeneous milky appearance but by the conclusions of the study were nearly transparent. This suggests a physical structural change in the polymer. Soil Mobility: PATA formulated with GH was also applied to soil columns and soil boxes containing sand, Eudora sandy loam, Eudora sandy clay, and Kohola silt loam. Acrylamide could be detected by Day 2 in all soil columns. Acrylamide could not be detected in the runoff of any of the soil boxes.
9212955	Various problems during long-term percutaneous cardiopulmonary support.	A 54-year-old man with a left ventricular free wall rupture following acute anterior myocardial infarction underwent a repair surgery with percutaneous cardiopulmonary support (PCPS). During surgery and postoperatively, PCPS provided sufficient support flow. The patient was successfully weaned from PCPS on the 15th postoperative day and discharged subsequently. In the management of cardiac rupture patients, PCPS has the merit of preventing rupture progression and the advantage of recovery of pulmonary function. However, there are several problems to solve. The support effectiveness and recovery of the patient's heart should be carefully evaluated. Effective left heart decompression also needs to be established. Heparin-coated circuits still need proper anticoagulation treatment to prevent thrombus formation especially while support flow is low. A circuit construction that allows easier maintenance and safer exchange of oxygenators and pump heads is suggested. Ischemia of the cannulated leg should be prevented by femoral artery perfusion.
9224989	[Immunologic fetal and neonatal immaturity: influence on the clinical course of HIV-1 infection in children]	Children born to HIV-1 infected mothers present a more severe clinical evolution than adults or children infected by other routes. The physiologic immaturity of the fetal and neonatal immune systems at the time of the infection probably plays an essential role in the progression of HIV-1 infection in these children. This paper describes the development of the normal human immune system and its correlation with the immunopathogenicity of vertical acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
9244999	[Sudden infant death]	Sudden infant death [SID] is defined as the &quot;sudden death of an infant under one year of age that remains unexplained after a thorough case investigation, including performance of a complete autopsy, examination of the death scene and the review of the clinical history&quot;. This definition, given by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development in the USA. recognized SID as a diagnostic entity, however, SID remains a pathological diagnosis of exclusion. SID-cases are divided into three categories: group 1 in which autopsy does not reveal any cause of death, group 2 in which postmortem findings are not sufficient to be the cause of death; group 3 in which the death is adequately explained, is classified as &quot;non-SID&quot;. The purpose of the study was to analyse the situation about SID over a 25-year period, from 1969 through 1993, looking for changes in frequency and developmental trends. The study includes 364 SID-infants which were examined according to a standard method. Histological, microbiological, virological and immunological studies were performed and data of the death scene investigation and of the clinical history were collected, 284 infants who had died due to clinical diseases served as one control group, a second group consisted of 6397 newborns of the city of Zrich. Of the SID-infants, almost every third infant [29%] was grouped in group 1, more than half of the infants [52%] with signs of mild infections in group 2, whereas almost every fifth child [19%] was grouped in group 3. With regard to epidemiological parameters the peak of mortality was found at about three months of age; the percentage of boys and twins, of third and later born infants was higher compared to the general population. SID probands were born twice as often in October as in March. The percentage of mothers of first, second and third born SID-infants at an age younger than 20, 22 and 24 years was higher compared to the general population. All these parameters were also found in group 3. The risk of familial recurrence in group 1 and group 2 was 0.8%. Between 1969 and 1993 the rate of SID deaths dropped from 1.1 to 0.9 per thousand live births, whereas SID as a percentage of postneonatal mortality increased to 34 per cent.
9253045	Monochromatic microtomographic imaging of osteoporotic bone.	A monochromatic beam obtained from laboratory based instrumentation has been used for the first time to carry out a microtomographic x-ray scan of a small segment of osteoporotic bone. The resulting tomograph provides an accurate map of the x-ray linear attenuation coefficient at the characteristic energy for Cu K alpha x-rays. The bone segment was imaged in a variety of ways which are common to microtomography in order to compare the efficacy of different experimental configurations. A Si crystal monochromator was placed before the x-ray detector in order to reject radiation scattered by the sample. In addition, polychromatic scans were compared with monochromatic scans. The effects of multiple scatter can be seen upon comparison of scans with and without the second monochromator. The results indicate that beam-hardening and x-ray scattering can significantly alter an image, thereby distorting the interpretation of what is physically present in the specimen. An accurate, monochromatic tomographic scanning facility is being developed in an attempt to map meaningful physical constants for various materials.
9265859	Motor vehicle crashes and maternal mortality in New Mexico: the significance of seat belt use.	In recent years, as deaths from medical complications during pregnancy have declined, injuries-specifically those sustained in motor vehicle crashes-represent a growing proportion of all pregnancy-associated deaths. To investigate pregnancy-associated deaths in motor vehicle crashes in New Mexico, we scrutinized the database of the New Mexico Office of the Medical Investigator for all deaths during pregnancy and up to 6 weeks postpartum from 1986 through 1995. A total of 97 deaths were identified, 47 of which were injury-related. Motor vehicle crashes accounted for 33 (approximately 70%) of the injury-related deaths. We analyzed the data on motor vehicle crashes for decedent's age and ethnicity, fetal gestational age, time of crash, rural vs urban location of crash, seat belt use, and drug and alcohol use. Compared with non-Hispanic white women, proportionately higher numbers of Hispanic and American Indian pregnant women were killed in motor vehicle crashes. In searching for modifiable risk factors, we noted that 45% of the crashes involved alcohol and that the majority of pregnant women killed (77%) were not wearing seat belts at the time of the crash. We conclude that education about seat belt use during pregnancy (as well as the dangers of alcohol use and riding with intoxicated drivers while pregnant) is a promising strategy to reduce motor vehicle fatalities.
9276623	Suppression of testosterone and estradiol-17beta-induced dysplasia in the dorsolateral prostate of Noble rats by bromocriptine.	We, and others, have previously described the histological changes that occur in the prostate gland of intact Noble (NBL) rats following prolonged hormonal treatment. Dysplasia, a pre-neoplastic lesion, develops specifically in the dorsolateral prostates (DLPs) of NBL rats treated for 16 weeks with a combined regimen of testosterone (T) and estradiol-17beta (E2) (T + E2-treated rats). Concurrent with DLP dysplasia induction, the dual hormone regimen also elicits hyperprolactinemia, in addition to an elevation of nuclear type II estrogen binding sites (type II EBS), no alteration in estrogen receptors (ER), and marked epithelial cell proliferation in the dysplastic foci. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the dual hormone action is mediated via E2-induced hyperprolactinemia. Bromocriptine (Br), at a dose of 4 mg/kg body wt per day, was used to suppress pituitary prolactin (PRL) release. Serum PRL levels were lowered from values of 341 +/- 50 ng/ml in T + E2-treated rats to 32 +/- 10 ng/ml in Br co-treated animals. The latter values were comparable to those in untreated control rats. In addition, Br co-treatment effectively inhibited the evolution of dysplasia (six out of eight rats) and the often associated inflammation (five out of eight rats) in most animals. In contrast, Br co-treatment did not suppress the T + E2-induced type II EBS elevation nor alter ER levels in the DLPs of these rats, when compared with T + E2-treated rats. These data extend the many previous studies that have detailed marked influences of PRL on rat prostatic functions. However, the current study is the first to implicate PRL in prostatic dysplasia induction in vivo.
9290633	Physician responses to global physician expenditure budgets in Canada: a common property perspective.	Global expenditure budgets in the fee-for-service physician sector create management problems for both funders and physicians. Global expenditure cap policies must be designed, and appropriate institutional structures created, to mitigate perverse utilization incentives, manage collective utilization, and diffuse the internal professional and the funder-profession tensions created by a capped budget. Two Canadian provinces that adopted different approaches to the design of their physician expenditure cap policies experienced different outcomes in utilization growth. The outcomes, however, are the opposite to what one would predict based on an analysis of the incentive structures embodied in the two provinces' policies. An analytic framework developed for the study of common-property resources is applied to the differing physician responses to global budgets across the two provinces. The insights offered by this framework can guide policy design for global physician budgets, and they indicate the critical importance of physician acceptance of such a policy.
9296727	[Misuse of inpatient care--background, indicators and evaluation parameters]	17a of the German hospital financing law constitutes the basis for the evaluation of not justified hospital admission. It demands not to admit patients into hospital who do not need inpatient treatment or, treat them in an inpatient-setting longer than medical required. Unjustified inpatient treatment results from faulty decision with regard to admission, to adequate intensity of medical care or duration of stay. The priority of outpatient treatment over the pre-, post-, partial and complete inpatient treatment must be taken into consideration at each decision. The following items can indicate unjustified inpatient treatment already prior to the detailed examination of a hospital; length of stay higher than average, a lot of patients staying only a short time, high rate of self-admission, long preoperative period, inadequate relations between age and diagnosis groups, increasing frequency of unspecified symptoms and syndromes in the main treatment diagnosis, peculiarities concerning the categorisation of nursing care etc. The systematic approach to the analysis of unjustified hospital admission requires the evaluation of clinical pictures with the question as to the primary necessity of inpatient treatment, the adequate length of stay and whether there are alternatives of medical care as an outpatient. Testing parameters are, among others, occasion of admission, severity of illness, indication for complete in-patient treatment, utilisation of alternatives to medical care (outpatient, pre-, post-, partial inpatient treatment), adequacy of diagnostic or therapeutic intervention with regard to the disease, intensity, respectively chronological sequence of medical procedures, efficiency of organizational processes, transfer or discharge in time. The evaluation of unjustified admission to inpatient treatment should be conducted with a systematic approach including standardised methods and an adequate sample size on the basis of the individual medical report. In 1995 an outline as to testing of unjustified hospital admission as already presented by Bundes-Arbeltsgemeinschaft der Medizinischen Dienste der Krankenversicherung.
9302809	The impact of Hymenoptera venom allergy on occupational activities.	The objective of this study was to investigate the impact of allergy to hymenoptera venom on the occupational activities of patients undergoing immunologic treatment for insect sting anaphylaxis. The design was a cross-sectional study conducted in a sample of 500 out of 1,500 patients undergoing venom immunotherapy for insect sting reaction in 13 allergy clinics in Israel. A self-administered questionnaire was used to collect data about demographic characteristics of patients, severity of the allergic reaction and adverse effects on occupational activities. Of the 204 respondents who were part of the labour force, 48.5% reported adverse effects on routine occupational activities. The factors with a significant influence on the probability of adverse occupational effects were: (1) patient's type of work (blue collar vs. white collar: OR = 3.22, p &lt; 0.001: army vs. white collar: OR = 5.28, p = 0.001); (2) severity of the allergic reaction (severe reaction vs. mild/moderate reaction: OR = 2.34, p = 0.007). Our findings suggest that severe insect sting allergy has an adverse impact on patients' occupational activities. This factor requires special attention by the medical community. Social workers and occupational physicians should collaborate in the assessment and management of these patients.
9304170	[Leopard syndrome and pulmonary subvalvular stenosis]	Pulmonary valve stenosis is the most frequent congenital heart disease associated with Leopard syndrome, an inheritable condition with a low incidence that we should be aware of and diagnose early. We describe the evolution of a patient with Leopard Syndrome and pulmonary subvalvular stenosis, from birth to the surgical treatment.
9304458	Assessing the impact of adolescent pregnancy and the premarital conception stress complex on birth weight among young mothers in Gibraltar's civilian community.	PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to assess the impact of young maternal age and the timing of conception on birth weight among primiparous women living in Gibraltar. METHODS: The data for this study were derived from a population of 295 primiparous women who gave birth under 25 years of age. Only married women who had no previous maternal history and delivered live singleton newborns between 1980 and 1984 were included. The confounding effects of gestation length, sex, and socio-economic status on birth weight were taken into account using the multivariate technique of multiple classification analysis. A conception timing variable was constructed and partitioned into four groups which represented the separate and joint effects of maternal age and prenuptial stress on birth weight. RESULTS: The overall mean birth weight was 3344.15 g. After controlling for the specified factors and covariate, the infants of older mother (> 19) who conceived after marriage weighed 57.78 g above the referent group mean. Older mothers who conceived a child before marriage delivered infants weighing 75.67 below the grand mean. Young mother (&lt; 20) who conceived within marriage had infants who weighed 37.32 g less than the grand mean. Infants delivered by young mothers who conceived before marriage weighed 133.66 g less than the overall mean birth weight. The only significant group difference detected within the conception timing variable was between young mothers who conceived before marriage versus older mothers who conceived after marriage. CONCLUSIONS: Premarital conception is identified as a risk factor for lower infant birth weights among mothers under 20 years of age. This study emphasizes the need to take into account the effects of culturally mediated behavior on the pregnancy experience of young women.
9322443	Assessing the sequence specificity in the binding of Co(III) to DNA via a thermodynamic approach.	The interaction specificities of Co(III) with DNA were investigated via consideration of thermodynamic characteristics of the duplex to single strand transition for DNA oligomers incubated in the presence of [Co(NH3)5(OH2)](ClO4)3. It has previously been demonstrated that incubation of the DNA oligomer [(5medC-dG)4]2 with this cobalt complex leads to coordination of the cobalt center to the DNA, presumably at N7 of guanine bases [D. C. Calderone, E. J. Mantilla, M. Hicks, D. H. Huchital, W. R. Murphy, Jr. and R. D. Sheardy, (1995) Biochemistry 34, 13841]. In this report, DNA oligomers of different sequence were incubated with [Co(NH3)5(OH2)](ClO4)3 via protocols developed previously and the treated oligomers were subjected to thermal denaturation for comparison to the untreated oligomers. The DNA oligomers were designed in order to investigate the sequence specificity, if any, in the reaction of the cobalt complex with DNA. The values of Tm, delta HvH, and delta n (the differential ion binding term) obtained from the thermal denaturations were used to assess the sequence specificity of the interaction. For all oligomers, treated or untreated, Tm and delta HvH vary linearly with log [Na+] and hence the value of delta n is a function of the Na+ concentration. The results indicate no significant reaction between the cobalt complex and oligomers possessing isolated -GA- or -CG- sites; however, the thermodynamic characteristics of DNA oligomers possessing either an isolated -GG- site or an isolated -GC- site were altered by the treatment. Atomic absorption studies of the treated oligomers demonstrate that only the DNA oligomers possessing isolated -GG- or -GC- sites bind cobalt. Hence, the changes in the thermodynamic properties of these oligomers are a result of cobalt binding with a remarkable sequence specificity.
9323822	Changes during the last decade in clinical parameters of operated lung carcinoma patients of a center for thoracic surgery and the prognostic significance of TNM, morphometric, cytometric, and glycohistochemical properties.	Two sets of patients with potentially curative resection of primary carcinomas operated in the Department of Thoracic Surgery, Thoraxklinik, Heidelberg during the period 1983-1984 (cohort I), and in 1994 (cohort II) were analyzed. The survival of patients, postsurgical TNM-stages, cell types, and exposure to potentially harmful substances were evaluated. In addition, cytometric and morphometric techniques, and various biotinylated markers have been applied to the tissue sections of the 1994 cohort. Cohort I comprised 282 patients (253 men and 29 women), cohort II all in all 171 patients (121 men and 49 women). In cohort I there were 262 heavy smokers, and 28 patients had a history of exposure to harmful environmental substances (asbestos, polycyclic aromates, etc.) compared to 145 smokers and 68 patients who inhaled potentially harmful substances in cohort II. Major changes were also seen in early lung cancer stages (pT1, pN0) which increased in cohort II, and in a decrease in the relative frequency of epidermoid carcinomas in both men and women with corresponding increase in the frequency of adenocarcinoma in both sexes. The median survival of patients operated with advanced tumor stages had remained unchanged, that of early stages (pT1, pN0, pN1) seems to have improved. Within the cytometric features syntactic structure analysis revealed that the current of structural entropy is closely associated with the survival of patients. Of prognostic significance are, in addition, the expression of binding capacities to histoblood group trisaccharides A and H, the presence and the binding of macrophage migration inhibitory factor, and the presence of ligands for the chicken liver galectin CL-16 and the LewisY antigen. Multivariant statistical analysis gave preferential prognostic importance to the glycohistochemical and morphometric parameters relative to the clinical pT and pN stages in survival analysis.
9359910	Changes in subsarcolemmal sodium concentration measured by Na-Ca exchanger activity during Na-pump inhibition and beta-adrenergic stimulation in guinea-pig ventricular myocytes.	Measurement of Na-Ca exchange activity was used to examine subsarcolemmal sodium levels ([Na+]s) in single, voltage-clamped guinea-pig cardiac myocytes while Na-K pump activity was modulated pharmacologically. Changes in Nas were evaluated from phase-plane analysis of the changes in intracellular calcium, measured using the fluorescent indicators Fura-red and Fluo-3. Activation of beta-adrenoceptors with 1 microM isoprenaline resulted in activation of the cAMP-dependent chloride current, but had no effect on the calcium transient mediated via the Na-Ca exchanger, regardless of whether the Na-K pump was active or inhibited (with strophanthidin). The ability of Na-Ca exchange activity to report [Na+]s was demonstrated by the effect of changing the extracellular rubidium concentration from 1 to 5.4 mM to modulate Na-K pump activity. We suggest that beta-adrenergic stimulation does not directly affect either the Na-K pump or the Na-Ca exchanger and that the Na-Ca exchanger can be used as a sensitive indicator of changes in [Na+]s and Na-K pump activity.
9361509	Survival following orthotopic cardiac xenotransplantation between juvenile baboon recipients and concordant and discordant donor species: foundation for clinical trials.	It has been more than a decade since the last clinical trial of cardiac xenotransplantation in a newborn infant. Since that event, laboratory research at Loma Linda University has focused on survival studies of orthotopically xenografted juvenile baboon recipients. Both concordant and discordant donor species have been used. Transgenic donors have not been explored at Loma Linda. Instead, simplified host immunoregulative protocols, consistent with those used in neonatal cardiac allografting, have been adapted to xenotransplant research. Xenograft bridge to alloengraftment was evaluated in a series of five juvenile baboon recipients. Heterotopically implanted cardiac xenografts stimulated host production of xenoreactive antibody. Orthotopic cardiac allografting was then carried out. Xenoantibody appeared to play little role in immediate or chronic survival of experimental hosts. A clinical protocol of xenobridging to allotransplantation would likely succeed. Two consecutive series of orthotopically xenotransplanted hosts using rhesus monkey cardiac donors demonstrated unprecedented long-term survival. Splenectomy combined with maintenance therapy consisting of FK-506 and methotrexate contributed to survival of up to 502 days in one series of xenografted baboon hosts selected for ABO blood grouping, mixed lymphocyte culture, and crossmatch compatibility. Survival beyond a year (maximum 515 days) among three consecutive juvenile baboon recipients of orthotopically implanted rhesus monkey hearts, in which splenectomy was omitted and cyclosporine was substituted for FK-506, represents a benchmark achievement. Commencing maintenance immunosuppression several weeks prior to transplantation appeared to improve chronic survival significantly. Investigation of discordant (pig-to-baboon) host survival has focused on adsorption of naturally occurring xenoreactive antibody at the time of transplantation. This strategy, combined with pretransplant total lymphoid irradiation and both pre- and posttransplant immunosuppression, succeeded in preventing hyperacute rejection and resulted in survival of up to 24 days, thereby permitting observation of the delayed xenograft rejection phase. Data support consideration of additional clinical trials of concordant neonatal cardiac xenotransplantation and offer promise for the development of discordant xenotransplantation as an ultimate therapeutic resource.
9366976	A comparison of family of origin factors between children of alcoholics and children of non-alcoholics in a longitudinal panel.	Secondary analysis of longitudinal panel data reveals minimal differences in family of origin factors between children of alcoholics (COAs) and children of non-alcoholics (non-COAs). From 220 subjects, 37 parents were identified as alcoholic. The COA subjects' retrospective reports about family of origin factors were compared to those of non-COAs. Contrary to the assertions of the COA clinical literature, few differences were found between the two groups. However, these differences are congruent with the findings of other panel studies which have investigated family of origin factors and adult outcome among COAs.
9401563	Endocrine and nutritional regulation of prenatal growth.	Fetal growth in late gestation is primarily determined by the functional status of the pathways by which nutrients are transferred from the maternal compartment, across the placenta, and taken up by the fetal tissues. Both the maternal and fetal endocrine systems can influence this pathway at several levels, including regulation of placental metabolism. The primary fetal axis involved in the regulation of fetal growth is the glucose-insulin-insulin-like growth factor I axis.
9409626	Acrylic acid: two-generation reproduction toxicity study in Wistar rats with continuous administration in the drinking water.	In a two-generation reproduction toxicity study, groups of 25 male and 25 female Wistar rats (for both F0 and F1 generations) received acrylic acid (AA) in the drinking water at concentrations of 0 (control), 500, 2500 and 5000 ppm for at least 70 days prior to mating, through mating, gestation, lactation and to weaning. The study continued through to weaning of the F2 offspring at 21 days of age. Achieved intakes of AA for the F0 and F1 parents during premating ranged from 46 (500 ppm) to 502 (5000 ppm) mg/kg/day. AA had no adverse effects on fertility and reproductive performance of the parent rats at doses up to 5000 ppm. General systemic toxicity was apparent with reduced body weights, food and water consumption in F0 parents at 5000 ppm and in F1 parents at 2500 and 5000 ppm; the only treatment-related pathological finding was a minimal hyperkeratosis of the limiting ridge of the forestomach with a minimal oedema of the submucosa of the glandular stomach in both parental generations at 5000 ppm. Dose-related signs of developmental toxicity were detected in F1 and F2 pups at 2500 and 5000 ppm in the form of retarded growth and some delay in the eye/auditory canal opening in F2 pups, but there was no evidence that AA had an adverse influence on pup morphology. Thus, the no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) is 5000 ppm for fertility and reproductive performance of the parents, 2500 ppm (F0 parents) or 500 ppm (F1 parents) for general systemic toxicity and 500 ppm for developmental toxicity.
9412919	Can pressure overload cause sliding hiatal hernia? A case report and review of the literature.	We describe a hiatal hernia of moderate size in a 31-year-old competitive bodybuilder to raise the question of whether such hernias are more likely in young elite resistance-trained athletes as a consequence of attempts to increase intra-abdominal pressure and thus decrease the strain on the lumbar spine.
9420350	Application of informed consent principles in the emergency department evaluation of febrile children at risk for occult bacteremia.	Informed consent requires that the risks and benefits of a particular diagnostic and therapeutic plan be reviewed with the patient, including the disclosure of alternative diagnostic and treatment approaches. Although it could be argued that it is difficult to present all the diagnostic and therapeutic options to parents in the E.D. management of febrile children at risk for occult bacteremia, it is the purpose of this report to describe the experience with following these principles of informed consent in a group of these children. METHODS: Convenience sample of febrile children presenting to an E.D. at risk for occult bacteremia. A standardized information sheet was presented. A parent survey of preferences followed. RESULTS: In 37 patients, most of the parents chose no tests and preferred to be involved in the medical decision making process for their child. CONCLUSIONS: While preferred by parents and supported by AAP, the process of informed consent, for febrile children at risk for occult bacteremia, is time consuming and often not possible when the E.D. is busy. Physicians may find it desirable to make decisions from an informed consent perspective to a comfort level dependent on time availability, parents' comprehension ability, and individual personal practice preference.
9432557	[Dental enamel hypoplasia in a group of celiac disease patients. Clinico-epidemiologic correlations]	BACKGROUND: The aim of present study was to carry out a personal clinical-epidemiological research concerning a possible correlation between coeliac disease and enamel hypoplasia. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-five patients of Cam-pania, aged between 2 and 26 years old, with a diagnosis of coeliac disease (diagnosis in accordance with recent protocol ESPGAN), were subjected to a careful dental examination: at the same time a control-group formed by 105 healthy subjects, of the same province, age- and sex-matched with coeliac patients was examined. RESULTS: The finding of enamel hypoplasias was more significant in coeliac patients (11 cases with a percentage of 2.4%) than in controls (5 cases with a percentage of 4.7%). CONCLUSIONS: The percent rate, if on the one hand is lower than in Finnic studies, on the other hand fundamentally reflects the results of studies on the same topic carried out by other Italian groups. Furthermore also in this research the involvement of milk-teeth is observed as reported by other authors. This appears to confirm a clear association between coeliac disease and dental hard tissues alterations.
9433783	Preparation of useful synthetic intermediates of Taxol analogs, cyclooctenone derivatives.	Stereoselective syntheses of omega-(alpha-bromoketo) octanals and nonanal with oxygenated functions and formation of the corresponding eight-membered carbocyclic aldols by subsequent samarium(II)-mediated cyclization are demonstrated. Cyclooctenones deoxygenated at the C2 or C10 position in the taxane framework are prepared by dehydration of the above aldols.
9439871	Aging and depression: vulnerability and stress across adulthood.	This paper reviews research on the relationship between age and depression in adulthood, with a focus on depression in late life. Age differences in prevalence rates of major depression and depressive symptomatology raise questions about presentation and measurement of depression across adulthood, and suggest a changing salience of risk factors for depression from young adulthood through old age as well as to cohort differences in risk for depression. Applying a developmental perspective on biological change, psychological adaptation, and stress processes throughout adulthood shows that risk for depression onset in young adults is typified more through psychological vulnerability and stress, as well as genetic factors, while risk for depression in older adults typified more through comorbid medical and neurological disorder. Implications for research and clinical practice are discussed. This review of the relationship of age to depression shows that the study of psychopathology and adult development can inform each other.
9445207	Laser-induced chorioretinal venous anastomosis for nonischemic central or branch retinal vein occlusion.	OBJECTIVE: To establish a communication between an obstructed retinal vein and the choroid by means of laser in eyes with nonischemic central or branch vein occlusion. METHODS: Retrospective review identified eyes with nonischemic central or branch vein occlusion, and with decreasing or persistently decreased visual acuity of 20/100 or worse for 4 months or more before treatment, that received 1 or more sessions of laser photocoagulation to create a chorioretinal anastomosis. RESULTS: Of 24 eyes with central vein occlusion, an anastomosis formed in 9 (38%) within 2 months after treatment, with visual improvement of 6 or more lines in 2 (8%) of 24 eyes, 1 to 3 lines in 5 (21%), and no improvement in 2 (8%). Of 6 eyes with branch vein occlusion, an anastomosis formed in 3 (50%) within 2 months after treatment, with visual improvement of 1 to 3 lines in 2 (33%) of 6 and no improvement in 1 (16%). No permanent, vision-limiting complications occurred during a mean follow-up of 13 months after the first treatment session or 8 months after the last session. CONCLUSIONS: Laser photocoagulation of a retinal vein and Bruch's membrane may create a chorioretinal anastomosis in some eyes with a nonischemic vein occlusion. Progression to an ischemic status may possibly be prevented with successful anastomosis formation. Marked visual improvement may occur. Treatment techniques to create reliably an anastomosis with subsequent visual improvement, while minimizing potential complications, continue to evolve.
9448706	Cytotoxicity and subcellular localization of boronated phenanthridinium analogues.	Binding and toxicity of boronated phenanthridinium analogues were studied in vitro using cultured human malignant glioma cells. The compounds, 5-ortho- (5-o-CP), 5-para- (5-p-CP), 5-nido- (5-n-CP) and 6-nido-carboranyl phenanthridinium (6-n-CP) showed varying toxic effects. The cells were exposed to the compounds for 2 or 24 h. The span between non-toxic and toxic concentrations seemed to be very narrow. 5-p-CP was the most toxic compound, causing total cell death at a concentration of 5 micrograms/ml cell culture medium. None of the compounds showed toxic effects at a concentration of 1 microgram/ml. Viable cells incubated with the compounds at this concentration showed a > 100-fold accumulation of boron. Only approximately 1/4 of this accumulation was found in cells permeabilized and inactivated with acetone. Fluorescent images of acetone-treated cells showed clear uptake of the compounds in the cell nucleus, as for ethidium bromide, while for viable cells binding to structures other than DNA was also observed. These results were confirmed by subcellular boron determination. All tested compounds intercalate into DNA, as was demonstrated in cell-free systems with calf thymus DNA. The hypothesis is that the compounds are trapped in the cellular membranes of viable cells because of their lipophilicity, before reaching nuclear DNA.
9449223	In vivo cytogenetic studies on mice exposed to acesulfame-K--a non-nutritive sweetener.	Acesulfame-K, a sweetening agent, was evaluated in vivo for its genotoxic and clastogenic potentials. Swiss albino male mice were exposed to the compound by gavage. Bone marrow cells isolated from femora were analysed for chromosome aberrations. Doses of 15, 30, 60, 450, 1500 and 2250 mg of acesulfame-K/kg body weight induced a positive dose-dependent significant clastogenicity (trend test alpha &lt; 0.05). These doses were within the no-toxic-effect levels (1.5-3 g/kg body weight in rats) reported by the Joint Expert Committee for Food Additives of the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. In view of the present significant in vivo mammalian genotoxicity data, acesulfame-K should be used with caution.
9452806	[Fingertips and nailbed injuries in children. Apropos of 241 cases]	PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The authors studied long-term outcome of fingertip trauma in children, as its management remains controversial. MATERIAL AND METHODS: 241 cases with a mean follow-up of 2.5 years were analysed. Epidemiologic data were studied as well as functional and esthetic sequelae regarding nailbed as well as fingertips, depending on treatment. RESULTS: 42 per cent nail deformities, and 40 per cent sensory disturbances were found. Only 14 nailbeds were sutured, leading to 12 normal nails (86 per cent) when not sutured nailbeds led to 52 per cent normal nails. We obtained 60 per cent excellent and good results. DISCUSSION: We compared our results with those of other authors performing the same procedures; when most care is given to perionychium repair fewer nail deformities are found. The nail must be removed in order to explore the whole nailbed, using optic magnification. A small and adsorbable suture is preferable for better repair. Every injury involving the nail is liable to interfere with nail regrowth: parents and child must be warned of this risk. CONCLUSION: The importance of adequate management, a good overall view, and accurate treatment of nailbed injuries, especially in children, should be stressed, in order to avoid functional and cosmetic sequelae.
9469223	Pain-related cerebral potentials in response to acute painful electrical stimulation in sheep.	OBJECTIVE: To examine associations between late event-related cerebral potential amplitudes and behavioural responses to noxious electrical stimulation as an indicator of acute pain in sheep. DESIGN: Analysis of variance for the effects of stimulus intensity on the behaviour and event-related cerebral potential variables. PROCEDURE: Ninety-six brief constant current electrical pulse trains were presented to the front left leg of eight sheep at four intensities (2.5 to 10 mA) in a randomised order. An event-related cerebral potential and a graded flinch response were recorded for each stimulus and the 24 event-related cerebral potentials at each intensity were averaged to produce a mean waveform. Various components of this waveform were analysed and changes in these measures and the sheep's flinch response, as stimulus intensity increased, were determined. RESULTS: Both the flinch response and some event-related cerebral potential components, that is, peak amplitudes 114 [N1], 187 [P1], 318 [P2] and 230 [Pm] ms after stimulus onset, were significantly affected as stimulus intensity increased. CONCLUSION: These corresponding behavioural and event-related cerebral potential changes indicate the usefulness of using changes in the event-related cerebral potential to measure acute pain in sheep.
9473851	Relationship of prison life style to blood pressure, serum lipids and obesity in women prisoners in Japan.	This prospective study of female prison inmates assessed the effects of prison labour life style on the blood pressure (BP), serum lipids, and body mass index of pre- and postmenopausal female prisoners. This study was carried out in the largest women's prison, located in a town in the North East of Japan. The prison serves a reasonably large community. Three hundred and twelve premenopausal female prisoners and 88 postmenopausal female prisoners in a women's prison participated in this study. Weight and height were measured to calculate the body mass index, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were measured with a sphygmomanometer. Serum samples were collected for serum lipid estimations. Base-line data of two groups were compared by unpaired t-test, and changes in these data from the initial values were tested by paired t-test. From our limited data, both the pre- and postmenopausal female prisoners showed decreases in systolic and diastolic pressure, total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL-cholesterol, and body mass index. Both also showed increases in HDL-cholesterol. Given that almost all the women in this prison had the same labour life style, the findings of this study suggest that BP, the serum lipids concentration and obesity can be changed effectively by prison labour life, but are less readily changed in postmenopausal than in premenopausal women.
9473957	Complications following day case paediatric surgery.	Several children have day surgery under general anaesthesia and depend on adult relatives for support and postoperative care at home. This prospective review examines the post operative problems encountered by 62 such children from the time of discharge from hospital to the first outpatient visit. The children were in the age range 3 months to 12 years. The commonest complications reported were:- Pain (18.9%), Cough/Sore throat (18.9%), Fever (16.2%), Restlessness (13.5%), Vomiting (12.2%), and Sleeplessness (6.7%). Eight patients reported more than three complications each. Day case surgery should not be regarded as &quot;Minor Surgery&quot; under Minor Anaesthesia&quot;, rather, the concerns for safety and comfort of the patients should extend beyond the recovery room to the ward and home.
9474613	Acromegaly identified in a patient with a complaint of malocclusion.	Acromegaly in a female patient was first diagnosed after a dental examination at which time the patient complained of the inability to incise properly. An elevated serum growth hormone level and enlarged sella turcica confirmed the diagnosis of acromegaly. Based on examination of her plaster study models, it was apparent the patient had been developing a change in her dentition for years.
9497591	The external vacuum device in the management of erectile dysfunction.	The effectiveness of a vacuum erection device was evaluated in a 3-year prospective trial involving 110 men with erectile disorders. The patients ranged from 36 to 75 years of age (average: 61). Fifty-seven had chosen the vacuum device as a first treatment attempt; 27 were on intracavernous self-injections with a vasoactive agent but wanted another treatment; and several treatment modalities had failed in the remaining 26 patients. At the 3-month follow-up, the patients were mailed a questionnaire to evaluate the quality of sexual intercourse with the vacuum constriction device. Partner satisfaction was evaluated in parallel. Improvement in sexual parameters as well as difficulties and side effects induced by the device were investigated. Our results confirm the efficacy of the vacuum constriction device in the treatment of erectile dysfunction in selected patients.
9502145	Hemodynamics after aortic valve replacement with St. Jude Medical valve for patients with small aortic annulus and severe left ventricular hypertrophy.	BACKGROUND AND AIMS OF THE STUDY: Cardiac function after aortic valve replacement (AVR) for patients with small aortic annulus and increased left ventricular (LV) wall thickness has not been clearly defined. The study aim was to examine a potential relationship between postoperative catheterization data (or radionuclide LV cardiac function) and the size of the aortic valve ring of a small St. Jude Medical prosthesis. METHODS: Sixty-one patients with small prosthesis (&lt; or = 23 mm) were allocated to three groups based on the diameter of the native aortic annulus or aortic valve ring of the prosthesis (group I, 19 mm; group II, 21 mm; group III, 23 mm). Pre- and postoperative cardiac function was evaluated from catheterization data and radioisotope (RI) ventriculography. RESULTS: There were no significant inter-group differences in preoperative pulmonary artery pressures (PAPs), total pulmonary resistance (TPR), LV ejection fraction, peak ejection rate (PER) and peak filling rate (PFR). The mean postoperative PAPs and TPR of group I were significantly elevated in ICU compared with those of groups II or III (PAP: group I, 20+/-5; group II, 17+/-4; group III, 14+/-4 mmHg; p &lt;0.01. TPR: group I, 505+/-268; group II, 316+/-134; group III, 276+/-125 dynes.s.cm-5; p &lt;0.05). Postoperative PAPs and TPR of group I at one month after surgery were decreased, and no significant difference was found between the three groups. Cardiac function by RI study showed that postoperative PER and PFR improved in all three groups compared with the preoperative values. CONCLUSIONS: Postoperative reversibility of PAPs and improvement of PER and PFR in patients with a prosthesis of 19 mm or 21 mm showed that a small-sized aortic SJM valve had hemodynamic advantages. However, careful postoperative management in the ICU must be applied to patients with a small aortic annulus of 19 mm and severe concentric hypertrophy.
9508184	Secondary myelodysplasia and acute leukemia in breast cancer patients after autologous bone marrow transplant.	PURPOSE: To determine the incidence of myelodysplasia (MDS) and/or acute leukemia (AL) in breast cancer patients after high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) with a single conditioning regimen and autologous bone marrow transplant (ABMT), and analyze the cytogenetic abnormalities that arise after HDC. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the records of 864 breast cancer patients who underwent ABMT at Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, from 1985 through 1996 who received the same preparative regimen of cyclophosphamide 1,875 mg/m2 for 3 days, cisplatin 55 mg/m2 for 3 days, and BCNU 600 mg/m2 for 1 day (CPB). Pretransplant cytogenetics were analyzed in all patients and posttransplant cytogenetics were evaluated in four of five patients who developed MDS/AL. RESULTS: Five of 864 patients developed MDS/AL after HDC with CPB and ABMT. The crude cumulative incidence of MDS/AL was 0.58%. The Kaplan-Meier curve shows a 4-year probability of developing MDS/AL of 1.6%. Pretransplant cytogenetics performed on these five patients were all normal. Posttransplant cytogenetics were performed on four of five patients and they were abnormal in all four, although only one patient had the most common cytogenetic abnormality associated with secondary MDS/AL (chromosome 5 and/or 7 abnormality). CONCLUSION: Whereas MDS/AL is a potential complication of HDC with CPB and ABMT, the incidence in this series of patients with breast cancer was relatively low compared with that reported in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who underwent ABMT. The cytogenetic abnormalities reported in this group of breast cancer patients were not typical of those seen in prior reports of secondary MDS/AL and appear to have occurred after HDC.
9519387	Late talker or SLI?: the story of Jay X.	Distinguishing between children who will &quot;catch up&quot; after delays in early language development (late talkers), and children whose early delays are a harbinger of the condition known as specific language impairment (SLI), remains one of the biggest mysteries facing speech-language pathologists who work with young children. The case of Jay X, a preschool child with a history of delayed language acquisition, illustrates the process by which the crucial pieces of clinical information are accumulated and interpreted to make this determination.
9534322	[Immediate and long-term results of treatment of focal lesions with aortocoronary venous bypass with a stent implant]	Patients with recurrent angina after coronary artery bypass graft surgery pose a problem. Stent implantation has been advocated in an effort to avoid repeat operation and to address the limitations of balloon angioplasty. Aim of the present study was to determine the in-hospital and long-term results of stent deployment in focal, de novo lesions of vein grafts. Thirty-five focal, de novo lesions of vein grafts in 31 patients were treated with stent deployment. Twenty-four patients (77%) had three vessels, 6 (20%) two vessels and 1 (3%) single vessel disease. Saphenous vein grafts aged 9.7 +/- 4.2 years (range 1-19 years). Twenty-two lesions (63%) were located within the body of the saphenous graft, 8 (23%) at the graft/coronary artery anastomosis and 5 (14%) at the aorta/graft anastomosis. The indications for stent deployment included: suboptimal result from balloon angioplasty (defined as > or = 50% post-angioplasty residual stenosis) in 29/35 lesions (83%); post-angioplasty coronary dissection with threatening occlusion in 4/35 (11%); abrupt closure in 2/35 (6%). Patients were screened for death, myocardial infarction, bypass surgery and repeat angioplasty during in-hospital stay and after a follow-up of 12 +/- 8 months. Even-free survival curve was constructed by the Kaplan-Meier method. Stent deployment was successful in all patients. One stent was deployed in 24/35 lesions (69%), half Palmaz-Schatz stent in 6/35 (17%) and 2 or more stents in 5/35 (14%). The balloon/vessel ratio resulted of 1.0 +/- 0.1 Minimal lumen diameter increased from 0.8 +/- 0.4 to 3.8 +/- 0.6 mm, with a mean gain of 1.8 +/- 0.6 mm (range 1.8-4.0 mm). During the in-hospital period 1 patient (3.2%) died and 1 (3.2%) had a non Q wave myocardial infarction. Therefore, the clinical success rate, was 94%. During the follow-up period, 2 patients died (6.9%), 2 (6.9%) developed a non Q wave myocardial infarction, 1 (3.4%) underwent bypass surgery and 3 (10.3%) underwent repeat angioplasty. The estimated 2-year event-free survival rate (free from myocardial infarction, repeat surgery and repeat angioplasty) was 62%. In conclusion, Palmaz-Schatz stent deployment in focal, de novo vein grafts presents a high rate of procedural success, a low rate of acute complications and good long-term results.
9548683	Pancreatic diabetes in Japan.	Pancreatic diabetes is usually a complication of other pancreatic disorders. Diabetes was a complication in 55.5% of 2,774 patients with chronic pancreatitis (CP) in Japan. More than half of alcoholic patients with CP in our clinic showed diabetes, and approximately 50% of those patients with diabetes were treated with insulin injections. On the other hand, cases of nonalcoholic CP showed mild endocrine dysfunction in terms of diabetic frequency and severity. Epidemiologic studies suggest that diabetes resulting from chronic pancreatitis accounts for &lt;0.8% of all Japanese patients with diabetes. In patients with CP, B-cell dysfunction occurred first, followed by disturbances in A-cell function. Decreased insulin secretion during postprandial periods plays an important role in pancreatic diabetes. The fasting level of blood glucose is not useful for the diagnosis of the early stage of pancreatic diabetes. The glucose-tolerance test should be performed to diagnose early-stage diabetes in patients with CP with normal fasting blood glucose levels. For control of blood glucose in diabetic patients with CP, multiple injections of short-acting effective insulin before the meal are necessary. The incidence of long-term diabetic complications, diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy and neuropathy, in patients with CP with diabetes are not less than those in patients with primary diabetes.
9549261	Cystoid macular edema associated with the use of latanoprost.	BACKGROUND: Cystoid macular edema is a common clinical finding following intraocular surgery. Certain medications have been associated with an increased incidence of cystoid macular edema. This article describes the clinical findings in two eyes of two patients in whom cystoid macular edema developed directly following treatment with the anti-glaucoma medication latanoprost, and assesses the possible causal relationship. CASE REPORTS: Clinical correlative and angiographic studies of two patients in a referral practice are presented. The main outcome measurement was visual acuity and fundus examination on discontinuation of latanoprost. RESULTS: Cystoid macular edema developed in two pseudophakic patients after the use of latanoprost. CONCLUSION: Latanoprost should be used with caution in pseudophakic and aphakic patients--especially those with retinal vascular fragility, any inflammatory uveal disease, or other factors that may predispose to the breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier.
9549348	[PEG-liposome in DDS and clinical studies]	The current status of newly developed polyethyleneglycol coated liposome (PEG-liposome) were described in this review. Liposomes have demonstrated considerable promise as a carrier for the delivery of drugs in vivo. However, one of the drawback is that most liposomes intravenously injected into animals are rapidly removed from the blood circulation by uptake primarily in the cells of reticuloendothelial system (RES). It has been found that PEG-liposome are not readily taken up by the macrophages in the RES and hence stay in the circulation for a relatively long period of time. Pharmacokinetic analysis and therapeutic studies with tumor bearing mice revealed that PEG-liposomes have considerable potential as drug carriers for cancer therapy. Elevated liposome accumulation has been found in the tumor bearing mice model system. Results from clinical studies with doxorubicin encapsulated into PEG-liposomes (DOXIL) in AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma revealed an increased therapeutic efficacy compared to free-drug. These new formulations of long-circulating liposomes (PEG-liposome) offer the development of immunoliposomes with both long survival times in circulation and target recognition being retained in vivo. Fab'-PEG-immunoliposome was newly designed to gain long-circulating enough to extravasate to the targeted solid tumor in vivo. An ultimate goal of Fab'-PEG-immunoliposome is the incorporation of a fusogenic molecules that would induce fusion of liposome following their binding to the target cells or their internalization by endocytosis. Such liposomal formulations should be useful for endocytotic internalization of plasmid DNA and other bioactive materials.
9553393	[Factors influencing admission to nursing homes among frail and bedridden elderly persons receiving public health and welfare services]	A prospective study was conducted to elucidate the factors influencing admission to nursing homes among frail and bedridden elderly persons. The subjects were 149 persons, 70 years of age and above, who were living in Goshiki-cho, Hyogo prefecture and were receiving services from public health and welfare organizations. All of the subjects had a family physician and their own residence or own room at home. A follow-up study of admissions to nursing homes was performed from 1991 to 1996. The main results were as follows: 1. During the study (about 5 years), 42.9% (N = 64) of subjects were staying at home, 38.9% (N = 58) died at home, and 16.8% (N = 25) were admitted to nursing homes. 2. To find factors influencing admission to nursing homes, an analysis using Cox proportional, hazard model was conducted. Major factors found were high age, women, disabilities of hearing and eyesight, and difficulty in communication. The admission rate to nursing homes was especially high among patients 90 years of age or greater. 3. The admission rate to nursing homes was higher in subjects receiving home help services compared to the rest of the group. 4. Remarkable differences in household composition were observed between those who continued to stay at home and those admitted to nursing homes. Among the subjects living alone or living with a spouse, the mean age was significantly higher in the group who were admitted to nursing homes than those staying at home. In the case of two or three-generation households, the admission rate to nursing homes was high when the household lacked caregivers.
9563040	Isolated Caroli's disease presenting as an exophytic mass in the liver.	A case of isolated Caroli's disease in a 2-year-old female presented as an exophytic cystic mass of the liver. A palpable mass below the right costal margin and displacement of the right colon were the main points of clinical presentation. Preoperatively, sonographic signs of intraluminal vascular tracts were identified. At laparotomy, the mass was found at the inferior border of the right lobe of the liver next to the gallbladder and was easily removed by wedge excision. Intraoperative liver biopsies and histologic findings of the excised lesion confirmed the diagnosis.
9572450	A survey of the effectiveness of the assessment of the welfare of the child in UK in-vitro fertilization units.	Seventy-one clinics in the UK offering in-vitro fertilization (IVF) treatment were surveyed for their protocols on the assessment of the welfare of the children produced. A total of 44 (62%) responded. Of these, five (12%) did not have operational protocols, seven (16%) declined to provide their protocols, and 32 (73%) provided information used in the survey. The information was in the form of a protocol for only 16 (50%) of these clinics. The remaining clinics submitted as their 'protocols' letters to general practitioners, patient information, patient questionnaires and/or a copy of their policy on the assessment of child welfare. From the submitted material, it was possible to determine that 94% of clinics seek information on aspects of child welfare assessment, 78% have a procedure for making further enquiries where there is any cause for concern, 44 % include counselling opportunities explicitly in protocols, 30-38% of clinics see a full medical and social history from each prospective parent as part of the child welfare assessment, 16% include explicit consideration of the impact of multiple births on the welfare of the child, and 3% include consideration of the issue of disclosure of the mode of conception of the child on its welfare. Most clinics did not have clearly defined procedures on how to reach a decision on whether or not to treat. Eight clinics (25%) made explicit in their protocols any exclusion criteria. It is concluded that clinics are not currently producing completely effective protocols. Two possible reasons for this are considered: lack of technical knowledge about what constitutes an effective protocol, and lack of clear policy development and propagation underlying protocols within clinics. Possible approaches to improving the situation are considered.
9578891	Management of male osteoporosis: report of the UK Consensus Group.	Although osteoporosis is generally regarded as a disease of women, up to 30% of hip fractures and 20% of vertebral fractures occur in men. Risk factors for osteoporotic fractures in men include low body mass index, smoking, high alcohol consumption, corticosteroid therapy, physical inactivity, diseases that predispose to low bone mass, and conditions increasing the risk of falls. The key drugs and diseases that definitely produce a decrease in bone mineral density (BMD) and/or an increase in fracture rate in men are long-term corticosteroid use, hypogonadism, alcoholism and transplantation. Age-related bone loss may be a result of declining renal function, vitamin D deficiency, increased parathyroid hormone levels, low serum testosterone levels, low calcium intake and absorption. Osteoporosis can be diagnosed on the basis of radiological assessments of bone mass, or clinically when it becomes symptomatic. Various biochemical markers have been related to bone loss in healthy and osteoporotic men. Their use as diagnostic tools, however, needs further investigation. A practical approach would be to consider a bone density more than one SD below the age-matched mean value (Z &lt; -1) as an indication for therapy. The treatment options for men with osteoporosis include agents to influence bone resorption or formation and specific therapy for any underlying pathological condition. Testosterone treatment increases BMD in hypogonadal men, and is most effective in those whose epiphyses have not closed completely. Bisphosphonates are the treatment of choice in idiopathic osteoporosis, with sodium fluoride and anabolic steroids to be used as alternatives.
9580254	Age-related changes in populations of aortic glycosaminoglycans: species with low affinity for plasma low-density lipoproteins, and not species with high affinity, are preferentially affected.	Glycosaminoglycans were extracted from the intima and media layers of normal human thoracic aortas from donors of different ages. The arterial segments were devoid of macroscopically visible lesions obtained from patients who had no clinically evident cardiovascular disease. Total glycosaminoglycan content increases during the first 40 years of life. Changes in the content of hyaluronic acid and heparan sulfate are less noticeable. The content of chondroitin sulfate (mainly the 6-isomer) increases, whereas dermatan sulfate remains constant. Plasma LDL-affinity chromatography of dermatan sulfate+chondroitin 4/6-sulfate fractions allowed the separation of LDL high- and low-affinity glycosaminoglycan species. Remarkably, only glycosaminoglycan species with low affinity for plasma LDL increase with age in the disease-free areas of human thoracic aortas studied. These results suggest that age-related changes in glycosaminoglycan composition of the arterial wall do not contribute to increased deposition of plasma LDL. However, the alternative explanation that individuals with arterial glycosaminoglycans that avidly bind LDL would develop early and severe cardiovascular disease and would thus be excluded from our analysis cannot be ruled out.
9580578	Lidocaine toxicity in primary afferent neurons from the rat.	Evidence from both clinical studies and animal models suggests that the local anesthetic, lidocaine, is neurotoxic. However, the mechanism of lidocaine-induced toxicity is unknown. To test the hypothesis that toxicity results from a direct action of lidocaine on sensory neurons we performed in vitro histological, electrophysiological and fluorometrical experiments on isolated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from the adult rat. We observed lidocaine-induced neuronal death after a 4-min exposure of DRG neurons to lidocaine concentrations as low as 30 mM. Consistent with an excitotoxic mechanism of neurotoxicity, lidocaine depolarized DRG neurons at concentrations that induced cell death (EC50 = 14 mM). This depolarization occurred even though voltage-gated sodium currents and action potentials were blocked effectively at much lower concentrations. (EC50 values for lidocaine-induced block of tetrodotoxin-sensitive and -resistant voltage-gated sodium currents were 41 and 101 microM, respectively.) At concentrations similar to those that induced neurotoxicity and depolarization, lidocaine also induced an increase in the concentration of intracellular Ca++ ions ([Ca++]i; EC50 = 21 mM) via Ca++ influx through the plasma membrane as well as release of Ca++ from intracellular stores. Finally, lidocaine-induced neurotoxicity was attenuated significantly when lidocaine was applied in the presence of nominally Ca(++)-free bath solution to DRG neurons preloaded with 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA). Our results indicate: 1) that lidocaine is neurotoxic to sensory neurons; 2) that toxicity results from a direct action on sensory neurons; and 3) that a lidocaine-induced increase in intracellular Ca++ is a mechanism of lidocaine-induced neuronal toxicity.
9595231	The value of neck drain in esophageal surgery: a randomized trial.	The use of surgical drains in certain clean elective operations remains controversial. To evaluate the role of closed-suction drain for an esophageal anastomosis in the neck, we conducted a randomized, controlled study in 40 patients with esophageal carcinoma who underwent esophagectomy with an esophageal anastomosis in the neck, half of whom had a neck drain inserted at the end of operation. The median (range) duration of drainage was 46 hours (36 to 88 hours). The median (range) amount of drainage was 63 ml (15 to 210 ml). There was no incidence of haematoma or seroma formation in both the drained and non-drained groups. Anastomotic leakage did not occur in any patient. The benefits of closed suction neck drain could not be demonstrated. Routine use of neck drain for esophageal anastomosis in the neck is not necessary.
9595727	[Drug treatment for stable coronary artery disease at primary and tertiary medical centers]	PURPOSE: To observe the distribution of the main drugs used in patients with stable coronary heart disease, in primary and tertiary medical care centers (MCC). METHODS: We studied 300 consecutive out patients at the Hetat Institute with the diagnosis of stable coronary artery disease, 205 (68%) males and 95 (32%) female, aged from 31 to 80 (mean 58 +/- 8.0) years old. Drug intake was evaluated. RESULTS: We observed that the use of nitrates (48% vs 55%; p = NS) and calcium antagonists (46% vs 37%; p = NS), respectively in both primary and tertiary MCC was similar. The beta blockers were used more often in the primary MCC (50% vs 35%; p = 0.02). Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (11% vs 42%; p &lt; 0.001), diuretics (30% vs 49%; p = 0.002) and aspirin (44% vs 76%; p = 0.0001) were more frequently used in the tertiary MCC. CONCLUSION: We observed similar frequency of use of nitrates and calcium antagonists in both centers. There was a higher use of beta blockers in primary MCC. The angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and antiplatelet agents were more used in the tertiary MCC. In relation to the updated literature, the best pharmacotherapy to coronary artery disease should be optimized in both centers.
9624878	Dietary fat consumption and health.	Dietary Guidelines have emerged over the past 30 years recommending that Americans limit their consumption of total fat and saturated fat as one way to reduce the risk of a range of chronic diseases. However, a low-fat diet is not a no-fat diet. Dietary fat clearly serves a number of essential functions. For example, maternal energy deficiency, possible exacerbated by very low-fat intakes (&lt; 15% of energy), is one key determinant in the etiology of low birth weight. The debate continues over recommendations for limiting total fat and saturated fatty acid intake in children. Recent evidence indicates that diets with adequate energy providing less than 30% of energy from fat are sufficient to promote normal growth and normal sexual maturation. More attention needs to be devoted to the effect of dietary fat reduction on the nutrient density of children's diets. The association between dietary fat and CHD has been extensively studied. Diets high in saturated fatty acids and trans fatty acids increase LDL cholesterol levels, and in turn, the risk of heart disease. The relationship between high-carbohydrate/low-fat diets and CHD is more ambiguous because high-carbohydrate diets induce dyslipidemia in certain individuals. Obesity among adults and children is now of epidemic proportions in the United States. High-fat diets leading to excessive energy intakes are strongly linked to the increasing obesity in the United States. However, the prevalence of obesity has increased during the same time period that dietary fat intake (both in absolute terms and as a percentage of total dietary energy) has decreased. These trends suggest that a concomitant decrease in total dietary energy and modifications of other lifestyle factors, such as physical activity, also need to be emphasized. Obesity is also an independent risk factor for the development of diabetes. The current availability of fat-modified foods offers the potential for dietary fat reduction and treatment of the comorbidities associated with diabetes. However, to date, few studies have documented the effectiveness of fat-modified foods as part of a weight loss regimen or in reduction in CHD risks among individuals with diabetes mellitus. The association between total dietary fat and cancer is still under debate. While there is some evidence demonstrating associations between dietary fat intake and cancers of the breast, prostate, and colon, there are serious methodologic issues, including the difficulty in differentiating the effects of dietary fat independent of total energy intake. Reported total fat and saturated fatty acid intakes as a percentage of total energy have been declining over the past 30 years in the United States. Despite this encouraging trend, the majority of individuals--regardless of age--do not report consuming a diet that meets the levels of fat and saturated fatty acids recommended by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. On a relative basis, saturated fat intake has gone down less than has total fat intake. Individuals of all ages who report consuming a diet with &lt; or = 30% of energy from fat consistently have lower energy intakes. Given the increasing rates of obesity in the United States at an earlier and earlier age, dietary fat reduction may be an effective part of an overall strategy to balance energy consumption with energy needs. In each of the age/gender groups reporting consumption of &lt; or = 30% of energy from fat and less than 10% of energy from saturated fatty acids, fat-modified foods play a more important role in their diets than for people who are consuming higher levels of fat and saturated fat. The data are clear than fat-modified foods make a more significant contribution to diets of consumers with low-fat intakes. While one cannot argue cause and effect from the results presented, the patterns of fat-modified foods/low-fat intakes are consistent. The focus on overall diet quality is often lost in the national obsession with lowering fat inta
9625905	Co-infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and HIV in high risk clinical care setting in Rhode Island.	We assessed the extent to which co-infection with HIV and Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) was diagnosed at several high risk clinical care sites from 1992 to 1994 to determine whether surveillance for co-infection was performed. Information on PPD skin testing, HIV status, and HIV risk exposures was extracted from records at HIV clinics in Rhode Island and a large database (HIV sites) and from records at the state TB clinic and the Rhode Island Health Department (TB sites). At the HIV sites, 34 of 1,408 HIV infected subjects were newly diagnosed with Mtb infection in the study period. At the TB sites, 16 of 1,389 subjects with newly diagnosed Mtb infection or disease were identified as HIV infected. Eighty per cent of the records reviewed for this study were incomplete. Hispanic subjects were at higher risk of being identified as co-infected at the HIV sites. At the TB sites, US-born subjects were at higher risk of being identified as co-infected Recommendations for high risk individuals include yearly tuberculosis skin testing. Adherence to these guidelines in selected high-risk clinical care sites in Rhode Island was substandard during the study period; the importance of Mtb screening was demonstrated in this study. Identification of groups that are at higher risk of having HIV and Mtb co-infection identified may enable health care providers to improve testing and prevention of tuberculosis at high risk clinical care settings.
9626201	Long-term prevention of skeletal complications of metastatic breast cancer with pamidronate. Protocol 19 Aredia Breast Cancer Study Group.	PURPOSE: Pamidronate, an aminobisphosphonate, has been shown to lower the risk of skeletal complications associated with lytic bone lesions for up to 1 year in women with stage IV breast cancer who received chemotherapy. We studied the long-term effectiveness and safety of continued treatment with intravenous pamidronate infusions for up to 2 years. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three hundred eighty-two women with metastatic breast cancer and lytic bone lesions who received chemotherapy were randomly assigned to receive either 90 mg of pamidronate or placebo intravenously every 3 to 4 weeks in this double-blind, multicenter, parallel-group trial. Patients were evaluated monthly for 2 years for skeletal complications, which included pathologic fractures, need for radiation or surgery to treat bone complications, spinal cord compression, and hypercalcemia. Bone pain, analgesic use, bone biochemical markers, performance status, quality of life, radiologic response in bone, and survival were also evaluated. RESULTS: As in the first year of treatment, the proportion of patients with any skeletal complication was significantly less for the pamidronate than the placebo group at 15, 18, 21, and 24 months (P &lt; .001). The proportions of patients with any pathologic fracture (i.e., vertebral and nonvertebral fractures), need for radiation or surgery to treat bone complications, and hypercalcemia were also statistically less for the pamidronate than the placebo group. The median time to the first skeletal complication was 13.9 months in the pamidronate-treated women and 7.0 months in the placebo group (P &lt; .001). Long-term treatment did not result in any unexpected adverse events. Survival did not differ between the two groups. CONCLUSION: The risk for osteolytic bone lesion complications in metastatic breast cancer was significantly decreased with monthly infusions of 90 mg of pamidronate, and this effect was maintained for at least 2 years. Pamidronate is a useful adjunct to standard chemotherapy in the palliative treatment of metastatic breast cancer.
9629755	[Quality control of bone densitometry: precision, reproducibility, and clinical application]	Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) is one of the most widely used methods for bone mineral density (BMD), total body mass (TBM), total body fat (TBF), percentage of total body fat (%TBF) and total body fat-free mass (TBFFM) measurements. We investigated the in vitro and in vivo accuracy and precision of DEXA in repeated measurements of a lumbar spine phantom and in 30 healthy volunteers. Based on precision, the minimal significant variability (MSV) at 95% confidence level between 2 measurements of the same object or subject was calculated. In vitro accuracy and MSV were 99.8 and 0.9% respectively. In vivo indexes were 99.4 and 0.9% for whole-body BMD, 98.6 and 2% for lumbar spine BMD, 96.6 and 4.8% for femoral neck BMD, 98 and 2.8% for major trochanter BMD, 96 and 5.7% for Ward's triangle BMD, 99.5 and 0.7% for TBM, 98 and 2.9% for TBF, 97.9 and 3% for %TBF and 99 and 1.4% for TBFFM. Our findings indicate that DEXA is a very reliable instrument and in order to be 95% confident of a real change between 2 scans a difference of at least the calculated MSV must be measured.
9637334	Reflection and patterns of knowing in nursing.	Over the last decade nursing has progressed from a reliance on empirical theory applied to practice to a recognition that experience develops knowledge that can guide the actions of practitioners. Reflection is a means of surfacing experiential knowledge, and students may begin to use reflection as their experience of nursing accumulates. As Carper was a key figure in widening that knowledge accepted as knowing in nursing beyond the empirical, it is both justified and recommended that her work should be incorporated into reflective practice. Johns has integrated Carper's work in his model of guided reflection and this paper briefly examines this combination. The main focus is on two further patterns of knowing: unknowing and sociopolitical knowing. These patterns are examined and the contribution they could make to reflective practice is discussed.
9638203	[Iatrogenic esophageal perforation]	A total of 213 patients with a foreign body in the oesophagus was treated in our unit between 1980-1990. Most of the foreign bodies were impacted in the cervical oesophagus. Oesophagoscopy were carried out under general anaesthesia in all cases. iatrogenic perforation of oesophagus was encountered in ten cases. Our results suggest that most instrumental perforation of the esophagus should be managed surgically. Drainage and closure of cervical perforations yields good results. Nonoperative management night be entertained in minimally symptomatic patients harboring a late, locally contained perforation without signs of ongoing sepsis.
9638731	A hazard assessment of artificial tanning units.	As a result of increasing concern over the use of artificial tanning units, many local government recreation departments are phasing out the use of sunbeds on their premises, resulting in some clients switching to high street parlours about which little is known. An Environmental Health survey was conducted in all 32 tanning premises within a local government area (Perth &amp; Kinross, Scotland). A number of significant problems emerged in the private sector. In this group, there was no form of cumulative UV exposure control in 89% of premises and 81% failed to give adequate advice and information to customers. We conducted UV spectral irradiation measurements in 38 tanning units using a double grating spectroradiometer. When a carcinogenic weighting factor was applied to these measurements, it was found that a 10 min exposure in a high intensity stand-up cabinet carried the same carcinogenic risk as approximately 30 min of local (56 degrees North) mid-day summer sunlight or 10 min of Mediterranean sunlight at mid-day. A questionnaire completed by 57 customers revealed a wide pattern of usage; 6 (10%) had more than 20 h exposure in the previous 12 months and 3 (5%) had made regular use of sunbeds for the previous 16 to 20 years. These results indicate that there is a need for continuing public education and surveillance of commercial artificial tanning units.
9643174	In vitro evaluation of the cytotoxicity of a bleaching agent.	Cell cultures of L929 and BHK21/C13 cells were used to evaluate the toxicity of a newly introduced bleaching agent (Colgate Platinum) compared to hydrogen peroxide, an established bleaching agent. The cell reaction was determined by a quantitative technique at 24 h and 72 h. Both bleaching materials had a dose-dependent effect on cell viability. Concentrations of hydrogen peroxide causing a 50% decrease in cell number (50% inhibition dose-ID50) were calculated as 0.00034% after 24 h and 0.00001% after 72 h in L929 cells. The ID50 of hydrogen peroxide was found to be 0.00016% after 24 h and 0.00007% after 72 h in BHK21/C13 cells. The ID50 of Colgate Platinum was 0.00074% after 24 h and 0.00045% after 72 h in L929 cells and 0.00055% after 24 h and 0.00024% after 72 h in BHK21/C13 cells. The results showed that, in vitro, both bleaching agents were cytotoxic to fibroblasts and the new bleaching agent was less toxic than hydrogen peroxide.
9656190	Transfer across the human gut of environmental plutonium, americium, cobalt, caesium and technetium: studies with cockles (Cerastoderma edule) from the Irish Sea.	Our previous studies have indicated lower values of the gut transfer factor ('f1 values') for plutonium and americium in winkles (Littorina littorea) than adopted by ICRP. The present study was undertaken primarily to investigate whether this observation extends to other species. Samples of cockles (Carastoderma edule) from Ravenglass, Cumbria were eaten by volunteers who provided 24 h samples of urine and faeces. Urine samples indicated f1 values for cockles which were higher than for winkles; for plutonium these ranged overall up to 7 x 10(-4) with an arithmetic mean in the range (2-3) x 10(-4), and for americium up to 2.6 x 10(-4) with an arithmetic mean of 1.2 x 10(-4). Limited data based on volunteers eating cockles from the Solway suggest that f1 values for americium may be greater at distance from Sellafield. The measured values compare with 5 x 10(-4) used by the ICRP for environmental forms of both elements, which would appear to provide adequate protection when calculating doses from Cumbrian cockles. Data for other nuclides were obtained by analysing faecal samples from the volunteers who ate the Ravenglass cockles. Cobalt-60 showed an f1 value in the region of 0.2, twice the value currently used by ICRP. For 137Cs, variabilities were indicated in the range 0.08 to 0.43, within the ICRP value of f1 = 1.0. Technetium-99 gave f1 values up to about 0.6, in reasonable conformity with the ICRP value of 0.5.
9679357	Cancer pain management. Improving knowledge and patient care.	OBJECTIVE: A pain management project was designed to assess the effectiveness of a multifaceted intervention for improving GPs' knowledge of cancer pain management. Two hypotheses were tested: that the intervention would influence GPs' knowledge in the area of cancer pain management; that information would be gathered to assist in the production of educational material. METHOD: The project involved assessment of GP knowledge, feedback and discussion at project officer visits, mailings and participation in developing guidelines. RESULTS: All participants who completed the second round of visits were glad they had participated in the program. A discussion of the information topics covered is included. CONCLUSION: Increasing GPs' knowledge of the management of symptoms is only one of many factors that influence their prescribing patterns. In cancer pain management lack of knowledge is a significant contributor to unnecessary patient suffering. We have been able to demonstrate the success of a multifaceted intervention in improving the knowledge of cancer pain management by GPs. Although not measured directly, it is hoped that this will lead to improved quality of life for patients cared for by these practitioners.
9681278	Diabetes teaching program improves glycemic control and preserves perception of hypoglycemia.	Improvement of HbA1c is frequently accompanied by deteriorating awareness of hypoglycemia. We studied the effect of improved metabolic control on hypoglycemia perception in 33 type 1 diabetic patients during 3 months after an inpatient diabetes education program of 5 days. Patients were grouped according to the presence (H, n = 11) or the absence (N, n = 22) of a history of repeated severe hypoglycemia. To measure awareness of blood glucose (BG) and hypoglycemia, we calculated their accuracy of BG perception (error grid analysis) and sensitivity for BG levels &lt; 3.9 mmol/l, respectively, during the first (I) and second (II) period of the 3 months using the method of BG estimation. HbA1c decreased from 8.0 +/- 0.3% before to 7.1 +/- 0.2% 3 months after the program (P &lt; 0.001) with no difference between H and N. Neither accuracy of BG perception (40.6 +/- 3.8 (I) versus 43.6 +/- 4.1% (II), P = 0.25) nor sensitivity for low BG levels (49.1 +/- 4.2 (I) versus 54.9 +/- 4.9% (II), P = 0.12) changed significantly. Group H had a lower overall accuracy of BG estimation (P = 0.048) and a lower overall sensitivity for detecting BG levels &lt; 3.9 mmol/l (P = 0.03) than group N. Group H was able to improve accuracy of BG estimation (H: 24.8 +/- 6.2 (I) versus 36.9 +/- 8.3% (II), P = 0.04) while group N was not (48.5 +/- 3.9 (I) versus 46.9 +/- 4.6% (II), P = 0.5). In conclusion, improvement of metabolic control after intensive diabetes education had no adverse effect on the perception of low BG levels. On the contrary, patients with a history of severe hypoglycemia improved their awareness of BG.
9684525	Trichosporon beigelii causing oral mucositis and fungemia: report of one case.	A 23-month-old boy, a victim of acute myelomonocytic leukemia (AML), was admitted for chemotherapy. On the eighth hospital day, he started a one-week course of chemotherapy with agents of epirubicin and cytosine arabinoside. Unfortunately, persistent neutropenia, deteriorating diarrhea and intermittently spiking fever developed from the sixteenth hospital day. Initially, ceftazidime and amikacin were empirically utilized. Blood culture yielded Klebsiella pneumoniae and the fever subsided for one day. Unfortunately, oral mucositis and catheter-induced phlebitis developed subsequently. Subsequently, oral nystatin and intravenous oxacillin were added. The results of cultures from both blood and oral mucosal tissue yielded a fungus. Trichosporon beigelii. We changed from an oral antifungal agent to intravenous amphotericin B on the twenty-fourth hospital day. He presented signs of septic shock with disseminated intravascular coagulopathy and expired on the twenty-fifth hospital day after failure to respond to aggressive resuscitation. We report this case to emphasize that in cytotoxic chemotherapy-induced granulocytopenic AML patients who have compromised immune systems, and who may manifest some signs or symptoms of infection, and at the same time poorly respond to interventional antibiotic treatment, the possibility of T. beigelii infection can not be neglected.
9688501	Pathways of interstitial fluid and lymph flow in the liver acinus of the sheep and mouse.	In the acinus of the sheep and mouse liver, lymphatic vessels are restricted to the portal tracts. Vessels less than about 25 microm across form a network around portal venules, and are closely associated with the limiting plate of hepatocytes. The perisinusoidal space of Disse is continuous with the interstitial space of the portal tracts at the origin of the sinusoids. It seems likely that excess interstitial fluid derived from the sinusoids flows along the perisinusoidal space of Disse to enter the portal tracts near the portal venules, and then enters the small lymphatics which lie adjacent to those venules. It then enters the larger vessels, which are adjacent to hepatic arterioles and bile ductules.
9699079	Virtual reality: preparation and execution of sinus surgery.	Endonasal sinus surgery requires a great deal of training before it can be performed adequately. Due to the complex and variable anatomy and the proximity of important structures, severe complications are possible, even for experienced surgeons. The nasal endoscopy simulator (NES) is an interactive training system for nasal endoscopy and endonasal sinus surgery that combines computer graphics and virtual reality (VR) techniques. This system consists of a graphics workstation, a tracking system for measuring the position of the endoscope and surgical instruments in space, a head model, image data sets of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinus area, and complementary software. The current NES is a visual and auditory VR system that provides both educational and planning options for sinus surgery. The usual resistance when touching relevant anatomical structures is not provided by this release. Therefore, a &quot;force feedback system&quot; is implemented that allows for such a response. VR simulation will become an important part of surgical education and planning for individual sinus surgery procedures. The ongoing development of the NES will lead to an improved educational environment for residents in training and practitioners.
9700587	Patients with multiple myeloma and solid tumors: six case reports.	Six patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and a second non-hematological neoplasm (solid tumor) are documented in this study. Two patients had a previous history of adenocarcinoma of the colon prior to MM diagnosis; in three patients a second neoplasm (lung cancer, adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder and adenocarcinoma of the colon) appeared at the time of MM diagnosis; one patient, a woman with a six-year history of MM, developed hepatoma. The two patients who had had a neoplasm of the colon ten years before and the patient with bladder carcinoma, responded to MM therapy. The patient with lung cancer and the patient with adenocarcinoma of the colon died; the last patient, with MM and liver cancer, is alive but with aggressive disease. In conclusion we have found that in MM patients a second neoplasm may develop or co-exist, in greater frequency than that of the general population.
9710011	Incidence and prevalence of intracranial aneurysms and hemorrhage in Olmsted County, Minnesota, 1965 to 1995.	BACKGROUND: There are no previous reports of the incidence rate of intracranial saccular aneurysms in a defined population. METHODS: Medical records of all residents of Olmsted County, MN, with a possible intracranial saccular aneurysm (IA) were reviewed. Incidence rates and prevalence of symptomatic and asymptomatic IAs, aneurysmal intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), and frequency of IA detection based on size and site were determined. RESULTS: A total of 348 IAs were detected among 270 persons during the 31-year period from 1965 to 1995, including 188 symptomatic patients at presentation (166 with ICH). The age- and sex-adjusted incidence rate for IAs excluding asymptomatic autopsy cases was 9.0/100,000 person-years (P-Y; 95% CI, 7.8 to 10.2). The rate of detection in women (10.7/100,000 P-Y; 95% CI, 8.9 to 12.4) was higher than in men. The highest incidence of IA was among those age 55 to 64 years in men, and 65 to 74 years in women. The incidence rate of aneurysmal ICH was 6.9/100,000 P-Y (95% CI, 5.9 to 8.0). Aneurysms were seven times more likely to be detected in the anterior circulation, and this ratio was not altered significantly by age or gender. On January 1, 1990, the age- and sex-adjusted prevalence rate of identified IAs was 83.4/100,000 population (95% CI, 64.1 to 102.7). CONCLUSIONS: This study provides unique data on the population-based incidence and prevalence rates of IAs.
9715834	Non-NSAID pharmacologic treatment options for the management of chronic pain.	Chronic pain affects 75 million US citizens. A number of pharmacologic treatments are available for chronic pain that does not respond adequately to nonpharmacologic methods. Long the mainstay of chronic pain management, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are known to be associated with gastrointestinal (GI) and renal toxicities, a particular problem for the elderly population, which commonly experiences chronic pain, such as that associated with osteoarthritis (OA). Several non-NSAID, non-narcotic therapies are available for noninflammatory pain. Acetaminophen is as effective as NSAIDs for the management of mild-to-moderate OA pain and is the recommended first-line therapy by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR). Propoxyphene, widely believed to be safe and effective, may, in fact, be no more effective-and perhaps less effective-than acetaminophen or ibuprofen. A relatively new analgesic, tramadol, appears to be a useful therapy for patients who do not receive adequate pain relief with acetaminophen and are at risk for NSAID-related side effects. For localized chronic pain associated with OA, topical capsaicin is also an effective analgesic.
9729913	[The effect of the primary operation on reoperations on the thyroid gland]	The authors analyze the possibility to reduce the number of reoperations of the thyroid gland, based on a group of thyroid operations performed at the Surgical Clinic of the Second Medical Faculty Charles University and Faculty Hospital Motol during the 22-year period from 1975-1997. 507 reoperations from a total number of 4501 thyroid operations amount to 11.3%. In the authors opinion correct indication of the operation is most important as well as the correct extent and technique of the primary operation. The achieved results are except for unilateral temporary lesions of the NLR comparable with primary operations.
9738242	[Therapy of bipolar affective illnesses with valproate. A review of the literature]	This paper gives an overall review of the literature since 1980 on the use of valproate in bipolar affective disorders. Randomised comparative studies definitely demonstrate that valproate proves superior in comparison with placebo and equivalent in comparison with lithium in the treatment of acute manic episodes. A series of open studies indicates a reduction in frequency and intensity of manic and depressive episodes with the long-term administration of valproate suggesting efficaciousness in the prophylaxis of bipolar affective disorders. Details on dosage, side effects and potential interactions with this group of patients are presented. Valproate constitutes a further valuable and well tolerated alternative to lithium, antipsychotic agents and carbamazepine not only in acute therapy of manic episodes but also in prophylactic treatment of patients with bipolar psychosis.
9739076	Centrosome dynamics in early embryos of Caenorhabditis elegans.	The early Caenorhabditis elegans embryo divides with a stereotyped pattern of cleavages to produce cells that vary in developmental potential. Differences in cleavage plane orientation arise between the anterior and posterior cells of the 2-cell embryo as a result of asymmetries in centrosome positioning. Mechanisms that position centrosomes are thought to involve interactions between microtubules and the cortex, however, these mechanisms remain poorly defined. Interestingly, in the early embryo the shape of the centrosome predicts its subsequent movement. We have used rhodamine-tubulin and live imaging techniques to study the development of asymmetries in centrosome morphology and positioning. In contrast to studies using fixed embryos, our images provide a detailed characterization of the dynamics of centrosome flattening. In addition, our observations of centrosome behavior in vivo challenge previous assumptions regarding centrosome separation by illustrating that centrosome flattening and daughter centrosome separation are distinct processes, and by revealing that nascent daughter centrosomes may become separated from the nucleus. Finally, we provide evidence that the midbody specifies a region of the cortex that directs rotational alignment of the centrosome-nucleus complex and that the process is likely to involve multiple interactions between microtubules and the cortex; the process of alignment involves oscillations and overshoots, suggesting a multiplicity of cortical sites that interact with microtubules.
9742301	Food allergy: a clinical approach.	Adverse reactions to foods are common and may be life threatening. Many of the reactions are immunologic (allergic), and the types of these reactions are discussed. The most common type is IgA mediated. Clinical manifestations are multiple. Systematic investigation is usually rapid and cost-effective and may be life saving.
9749350	Mouse spermatozoa modify their motility parameters and chemotactic response to factors from the oocyte microenvironment.	The aim of this work was to evaluate the period of time required for the induction of changes in motility of mouse spermatozoa in response to factors from the microenvironment of oocytes. To determine the effects of the latency time, the period of preincubation before contact with the oocyte product(s), sperm samples were incubated for 15 or 90 min and then exposed to either Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM) or to a crude extract of superovulated oocytes (CE). The assays were performed in a Zigmond chamber by filling one compartment with either DMEM or CE, and the other compartment with the sperm suspension. A videomicroscopy system was used for tracking the spermatozoa. Sperm motility analysis was assessed using a semiautomatic objective method, and the following parameters were determined; (1) dynamic parameters: curvilinear velocity, linear velocity and linearity; (2) progressive motility: percentage of spermatozoa showing either circular or linear patterns of movement; and (3) directional motility: percentage of spermatozoa that moved towards either the DMEM or the CE. The results of this work showed that when the spermatozoa contacted soluble factors in CE after only 15 min of previous incubation, there was a significant increase in their dynamic parameters, change in their progressive motility, and induction of directional movement of the spermatozoa towards the CE components, while a longer period of preincubation did not significantly modify these effects. On the other hand, in the presence of culture medium (with or without addition of bovine serum albumin), the spermatozoa needed a more extended period of incubation to significantly increase their dynamic parameters and to modify their progressive motility, while maintaining a random direction of movement.
9755597	Role of dorsal neck proprioceptive inputs to vestibular compensation in humans.	To investigate the role of cervical proprioceptive inputs in the process of vestibular compensation, we performed static posturography in patients with acute and compensated unilateral vestibular dysfunction, by applying vibratory stimulation to the dorsal neck muscles. Neck vibration induced disequilibrium in both groups of patients, but was more pronounced in the compensated patients. These results indicate that manipulation of the neck afferents causes discompensation in subjects whose vestibular dysfunction has already been compensated by multisensory inputs including neck afferents.
9755733	The patient self-determination act and advance directive completion in nursing homes.	OBJECTIVES: To assess the prevalence of advance directives among nursing home residents before and after passage of the Patient Self-Determination Act (PSDA) and to identify factors associated with advance directive completion. DESIGN: Prestudy and poststudy nursing home admissions using medical record reviews and a companion cross-sectional survey of alert and oriented residents. SETTING: Six nursing homes in Connecticut. PARTICIPANTS: Residents (N = 635) from 6 randomly chosen nursing homes in the greater Hartford and greater New Haven areas. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The existence of a documented advance directive, the timing of advance directive completion, and reported reasons for completion and noncompletion. RESULTS: The prevalence of advance directives documentation in nursing home medical records has increased significantly since the implementation of the PSDA (4.7% [14/300] before vs 34.7% [104/300] after PSDA; odds ratio, 10.84; P &lt; .001). The increase in documented advance directives was significant after controlling for sociodemographic and health status factors (odds ratio, 11.5; P &lt; .001). Residents admitted to the nursing homes from hospitals (vs from their home or other source), residents with more education, and residents paying privately for nursing home care (vs using Medicare or Medicaid benefits) were more likely to have documented advance directives. Younger residents (aged &lt; 75 years) were less likely than older residents to have completed a directive. Among the 35 interviewed residents, the most common reason for completing an advance directive was experience with a prolonged death of a friend or family member. Only 1 of the interviewed residents reported that the information provided under the PSDA at the time of admission was an important factor in choosing to complete an advance directive. CONCLUSIONS: Nearly 35% of the residents in the post PSDA cohort had an advance directive documented in the medical record. Most residents with advance directives had completed them more than 6 months before the nursing home admission. The major effect of the PSDA for nursing homes has been to enhance the documentation of existing advance directives. Little evidence exists that providing advance directive information at the time of nursing home admission has enhanced the completion of an advance directive after admission.
9759727	An analgesia circuit activated by cannabinoids.	Although many anecdotal reports indicate that marijuana and its active constituent, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-9-THC), may reduce pain sensation, studies of humans have produced inconsistent results. In animal studies, the apparent pain-suppressing effects of delta-9-THC and other cannabinoid drugs are confounded by motor deficits. Here we show that a brainstem circuit that contributes to the pain-suppressing effects of morphine is also required for the analgesic effects of cannabinoids. Inactivation of the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) prevents the analgesia but not the motor deficits produced by systemically administered cannabinoids. Furthermore, cannabinoids produce analgesia by modulating RVM neuronal activity in a manner similar to, but pharmacologically dissociable from, that of morphine. We also show that endogenous cannabinoids tonically regulate pain thresholds in part through the modulation of RVM neuronal activity. These results show that analgesia produced by cannabinoids and opioids involves similar brainstem circuitry and that cannabinoids are indeed centrally acting analgesics with a new mechanism of action.
9765082	Modified soft-balloon methods during ultrasonic probe examination for superficial esophageal cancer.	BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: In ultrasonic probe studies for early-stage esophageal cancer the original soft-balloon method utilizing a condom had succeeded in obtaining a clear and reproducible picture by keeping deaerated water in a condom; however, the condom, which covered the endoscope lens, eliminated the usual endoscopic sight. Therefore, the authors endeavored to develop a modified method which enables both normal endoscopic observation and ultrasonic probe study with only a single insertion of the endoscope. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-one patients with superficial esophageal cancer were included in this pilot study. As modifications of the soft-balloon technique, two novel methods of 'wrapping' and 'invagination' were developed. RESULTS: These modifications are considered to have solved the above-mentioned problem and enable one to acquire both normal endoscopic photos and ultrasonic probe images during the same insertion of the endoscope. CONCLUSION: In a pilot study novel modifications improved the method of ultrasonic probe study for superficial esophageal cancer.
9768296	Social skills, expectancies, and drinking in adolescents.	Research in the field of teenage drinking behavior has shown relationships between both social skills and drinking and alcohol expectancies and drinking. The present research investigated the comparative power of both of these sets of variables in predicting teenage drinking behavior, as well as looking at the contribution of more global cognitive structures. It was hypothesised that adolescents with high alcohol involvement would be discriminated from those with low involvement on the basis of social skills, cognitive structures, and alcohol expectancies. Seven hundred thirty-two adolescents participated in the study. Results indicated that adolescent alcohol involvement was associated with social skills deficits, positive alcohol expectancies, and negative cognitive structures concerning parents and teachers. The results revealed that, although the bulk of the variance in drinking behavior was explained by the independent effects of social skills and expectancies, the interaction of the two constructs explained an additional and significant proportion of the variance. Implications for preventive and treatment programs are discussed.
9773127	[Angiotensin II AT1 receptor antagonists: clinical development and future perspectives]	Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors is now recognized as an effective approach for the treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure. In addition, ACE inhibitors are very effective for the prevention of chronic renal failure. Today, it is possible to antagonize the effects of angiotensin II more specifically using AT1 receptor antagonists. Several non-peptide, orally active angiotensin II receptor antagonists have recently been developed clinically. These new molecules are as effective as ACE inhibitors, calcium antagonists and beta-blockers at reducing blood pressure in hypertensive patients. Furthermore, they appear to have similar systemic and renal hemodynamic properties in patients with congestive heart failure and renal diseases. Now, several large clinical trials such as the LIFE, the RENAAL and the ELITE II studies are under way to investigate the long-term benefits of one of these compounds in hypertension, heart failure and type II diabetic nephropathy.
9776012	Urodynamic findings in postprostatectomy incontinence.	Due to the large variability in the reported contribution of bladder dysfunction to postprostatectomy incontinence and the impact this dysfunction may have on the outcome of selected treatment, we retrospectively reviewed the videourodynamic findings of bladder and sphincteric function in patients with postprostatectomy incontinence. The contributions of bladder and sphincteric causes of incontinence are determined. Ninety-two patients had multichannel videourdynamic testing performed as part of a comprehensive evaluation for incontinence at least 1 year after prostatectomy. Using a 6-French double-lumen catheter in the bladder and a 10-French catheter in the rectum, all pressures were recorded continuously while in the upright position. Valsalva leak point pressures (VLPP) were measured in the absence of a bladder contraction at a 150-ml volume and at 50-ml increments thereafter until maximum functional capacity was reached. Bladder compliance and bladder capacity were determined and the presence of detrusor instability (DI) was documented. Sixty-five patients (71%) presented after radical prostatectomy (RP) and 27 patients (29%) after transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). The predominant urodynamic finding was sphincteric incompetence as VLPP were obtained in 85 patients (92%) and ranged from 12 to 120 cm water. DI was a common finding, occurring in 34 patients (37%), and classified as follows: a) phasic instability in 22/34, b) tonic instability in 3/34, and c) mixed phasic and tonic instability in 9/34. However, we found DI to be the sole cause of incontinence in only 3/92 patients (3.3%). There was no statistically significant difference in the incidence of sphincteric incompetence after RP or TURP; however, TURP patients had a higher incidence of DI, which was statistically significant (P=0.019). There was no correlation of incontinence severity and VLPP when comparing preoperative pad usage to VLPP &lt; or =70 or > or =71 cm water. Although bladder dysfunction may be contributing problem in patients with postprostatectomy incontinence, it is rarely the only mechanism for this disorder. VLPP does not correlate with incontinence severity. Although sphincteric incompetence is the most common mechanism contributing to incontinence after prostatectomy, bladder dysfunction may coexist or be an isolated cause of postprostatectomy incontinence. Therefore, urodynamic studies are important to illustrate the exact cause(s) of incontinence in each individual patient after prostatectomy.
9776811	Auricular chromoblastomycosis caused by Rhinocladiella aquaspersa.	An unusual case of chromoblastomycosis localized in the ear and caused by R. aquaspersa is presented. The patient was a 60-year-old male urban resident, who had had the disease for 5 years. The lesion was darkly pigmented, infiltrative and crusty. Sclerotic cells were seen on direct examinations and the fungus was recovered in culture and identified on the basis of the characteristic sporulation. Itraconazole therapy at a dose of 200 mg day-1 for 7 months produced complete healing.
9778444	Individual sex preferences and the population sex ratio of newborns.	This paper proposes the hypothesis that countries with stronger sex preferences are more likely to have a negative relationship between crude birth rates and male/female ratios of newborn babies. Conversely, the existence of a significantly negative relationship in any country may also be a supportive evidence of its preferences for sons. Our hypothesis is both behavioral and biological: on the behavioral side, parents with strong sex preferences are inclined to continue to bear children if the existing sex ratio of children is less than desirable. On the biological side, parents with many girls are more likely to be &quot;girl producers&quot;, who with individual-specific biological characteristics tend to generate higher female births. We use the macro data in the United Nations Demographic Yearbook to verify and test our hypothesis. For developing countries which do not have reliable micro data on fertility, our approach using macro data is a useful and interesting alternative.
9781959	Malignant vascular tumors in young patients.	BACKGROUND: To the authors' knowledge there are few published series of malignant vascular tumors in patients age &lt; or = 21 years. METHODS: The authors retrospectively documented the clinical presentation, pathology, treatment, and outcome of patients age &lt; or = 21 years with malignant vascular tumors treated between 1970-1995 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The histologic sections were rereviewed to confirm the diagnosis. RESULTS: Four patients were identified with angiosarcoma and two with malignant hemangioendothelioma. Five patients were female and one was male; the median age at diagnosis was 11.8 years (range, 8 months-21 years). The tumor involved the skin in one patient, soft tissue in one patient, bone in two patients, and internal organs in two patients. One patient had associated diffuse angiomatosis and another had the Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome. This patient received prior radiation therapy to the primary site with the subsequent development of a vascular sarcoma. None of the patients had distant metastases at diagnosis. Resection was attempted in five patients and completed in four. Chemotherapy alone was given to three patients whereas radiation therapy alone and radiation plus chemotherapy were administered to one patient each. The median follow-up was 4.9 years (range, 1 month-12 years). There were three deaths from progressive disease and two deaths from locoregional recurrences. Reexcision and radiotherapy controlled one local recurrence. Another patient developed recurrence to regional lymph nodes and further dissemination. The primary tumor in all three survivors was excised completely whereas two of the three patients who died of progressive disease underwent an incomplete excision or biopsy alone. CONCLUSIONS: Malignant vascular tumors are rare in the first two decades of life and when they do occur are very aggressive. Complete resection is curative for patients with localized lesions.
9782252	Gamma knife treatment of trigeminal neuralgia: clinical and electrophysiological study.	Between October 1995 and October 1996, we treated 49 patients suffering from trigeminal neuralgia with Gamma Knife radiosurgery. There were 23 males and 26 females. The mean age was 68 (range 38-94 years) The root of the trigeminal nerve close to brain stem was chosen as the target. The maximum dose was 70 Gy in 24 cases and 80 Gy in 25 cases. A single shot with the 4-mm collimator was used. 13 patients underwent Gamma Knife treatment of trigeminal nerve root without any previous surgical procedures. 31 patients suffered from an essential neuralgia (EN), while 7 had neuralgia related to multiple sclerosis (MS). Three had atypical neuralgia (AN) and 8 patients had postherpetic neuralgia (PN). Patients were divided into five groups according to pain reduction. The success rate of pain relief (excellent, very good and good responses) in these patients was: EN 77% of patients, MS 43%, AN 33% and PN 38% of patients. Pain relief occurred after latent intervals of between 1 day and 8 months (median 2 months and mean 2.8 months). Clinically detected complications after radiosurgery occurred only in the form of tactile hypesthesia in 6%. In a selected group of 18 patients, we observed slight electrophysiological changes in 2 patients (11%) after Gamma Knife treatment.
9782776	Helix bending as a factor in protein/DNA recognition.	Normal vectors perpendicular to individual base pairs are a powerful tool for studying the bending behavior of B-DNA, both in the form of normal vector plots and in matrices that list angles between vectors for all possible base pair combinations. A new analysis program, FREEHELIX, has been written for this purpose, and applied to 86 examples of sequence-specific protein/DNA complexes whose coordinates are on deposit in the Nucleic Acid Data Base. Bends in this sample of 86 structures almost invariably follow from roll angles between adjacent base pairs; tilt makes no net contribution. Roll in a direction compressing the broad major groove is much more common than that which compresses the minor groove. Three distinct types of B-DNA bending are observed, each with a different molecular origin: (1) Localized kinking is produced by large roll at single steps or at two steps separated by one turn of helix. (2) Smooth, planar curvature is produced by positive and negative roll angles spaced a half-turn apart, with random side-to-side zigzag roll at intermediate points, rather than a tilt contribution that might have been expected theoretically. (3) Three-dimensional writhe results from significant roll angles at a continuous series of steps. Writhe need not change the overall direction of helix axis, if it is continued indefinitely or for an integral number of helical turns. A-DNA itself can be formally considered as possessing uniform, continuous writhe that yields no net helix bending. Smooth curvature is the most intricate deformation of the three, and is least common. Writhe is the simplest deformation and is most common; indeed, a low level of continuous writhe is the normal condition of an otherwise unbent B-DNA helix of general sequence. With one exception, every example of major kinking in this sample of 86 structures involves a pyrimidine-purine step: C-A/T-G, T-A, or C-G. Purine-purine steps, especially A-A, show the least tendency toward roll deformations.
9786058	Putting evidence into practice.	A training module is described in which experienced health care managers from developing countries explore the challenges to be faced when attempting to use the results of systematic reviews of scientific studies on health care interventions in policy and practice.
9795056	Transformation of a liposomal dispersion containing ibuprofen lysinate and phospholipids into mixed micelles - physico-chemical characterization and influence on drug permeation through excised human stratum corneum.	Our study is meant as a contribution to the investigation of molecular association of phospholipids and amphiphilic substances like, e.g. non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Our research focused on physico-chemical characterization of ternary systems containing ibuprofen lysinate, lecithin and water. The influence of the resulting microstructures on drug release and permeation through excised human stratum corneum was also investigated. Depending on the mixing ratio different physical states (lamellar and hexagonal liquid crystals, micellar solutions, liposomal dispersions and biphasic systems) were determined by gross, polarizing microscopic and small angle-X-ray analysis. A special emphasis was laid upon the storage-induced transformation of liposomal dispersions into mixed micellar solutions and its influence on drug release and permeation. A model for the transformation process is presented. Drug release of the liposomal dispersion (Da=1.1x10-5 cm2/s) and of the identically composed mixed micellar solution (Da=2.9x10-5 cm2/s) was delayed compared with the data of the aqueous drug solution (Da=4.7x10-5 cm2/s). Because of the association of ibuprofen lysinate molecules with phospholipid molecules within the liposomal and the mixed micellar system the share of free ibuprofen lysinate monomers, which can pass through the dialysis membrane in the release experiment, is markedly reduced. The results of permeation experiments of these systems, however, did not correspond to the release data. The permeability of the mixed micellar solution rose after 6 weeks of storage (P=4.2x10-8 cm/s), and almost reached the permeation of the aqueous solution (P=3.9x10-8 cm/s), whereas the permeation of the liposomal dispersion was very slow (P=1.5x10-8 cm/s). The different colloidal microstructures of the formulations obviously resulted in divergent interactions with the permeation barrier - the stratum corneum - and subsequently in different permeation behavior.
9796384	Asthmatic exacerbations and environmental pollen concentration in La Comarca Lagunera (Mexico).	In order to determine the correlation between the concentration of environmental pollen and the frequency of asthmatic exacerbations in La Comarca Lagunera (Mxico), a study in a cohort of a 104 diagnosed patients suffering allergic asthma was carried out monitoring monthly from July '93 to July '95 in order to register the existence of asthmatic exacerbations. Environmental samples were taken weekly during the same period of time through a PST high volume collector (Andersen Samplers Inc). The above mentioned samples were processed under acetolysis technics and the pollen grain count under light microscopy. Linear correlation measures were made between the rates of asthmatic exacerbations and the concentration of pollen grain in m3 of air by means of a statistical computer program SAS. There was a 1469 persons/month follow up ('X 15.5) and the correlation between the rates of asthmatic exacerbations and the concentration of environmental pollen was relevant (r = 0.63, r2 = 0.39, p &lt; 0.01). The correlation increased (r = 0.70, r2 = 0.49 and p &lt; 0.01) when the asthmatic exacerbations associated to infectious disease in the upper respiratory system were restricted. The conclusion reached is that the concentration of environment pollen has influence in the development of asthmatic exacerbations in patients with allergic asthma.
9804088	Magnetic resonance imaging findings of the skeletal muscle of a patient with nemaline myopathy.	This is the first magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) report of nemaline myopathy in which muscle atrophy was not apparent clinically in the lower extremities because of subcutaneous fat. The patient is a 38-year-old woman who was admitted to our hospital because of muscle weakness of the four extremities. Until the age of 17 years, she was asymptomatic except that her running speed was slow. The T1-weighted image of muscle MRI at the mid-thigh level showed hyperintensity of the quadriceps femoris muscle and relatively spared hamstring muscle. The T2-weighted image of muscle MRI at the maximum diameter of the lower leg showed hyperintensity of the tibialis anterior muscle and a relatively spared triceps surae muscle. The biopsy specimen of the right deltoid muscle showed nemaline bodies and type II fiber deficiency.
9825026	Characteristics of geriatric patients related to early and late readmissions to hospital.	The aim of the study was to evaluate which characteristics of geriatric patients account for readmission to hospital, 6 months after discharge. All patients (203 females, 176 males) consecutively admitted over a two-month period to four acute geriatric care units, located in the cities of Chieti, Perugia, Pescara and Prato, participated in the study. Data that could potentially explain early and late readmissions were collected for each patient. Prevalence of diseases and comorbidity were assessed with the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (CIRS); physical function by self-report (ADL, IADL) and objective (Stand and Walking Speed) measures; cognitive level by MMSE; and depressive symptoms by the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS). Information on family and social support were also obtained. After discharge, data on hospital readmissions were collected for six months. For each readmitted patient (cases), medical records were reviewed, and supplementary information was obtained from families and general practitioners. Readmissions were classified as &quot;early&quot; (within the first three months), &quot;late&quot; (within the third and sixth month), and &quot;multiple&quot; (2 or more readmissions irrespective of the period). Patients not readmitted (alive at home) were considered as controls. Systematic differences between centers and between periods of readmissions were evaluated using one-way analyses of variance, and Pearson's chi 2 test. Factors related to early, late, and multiple readmission were identified in multivariate logistic regression models. On univariate analysis, patients readmitted over the first three-month period were sicker than controls (CIRS classes 3-4: 52.1% vs 34.1%), had more social problems or behavioral symptoms, and were more functionally impaired (ADL dependencies 3.3 +/- 0.4 vs 2.1 +/- 0.2). Patients who were readmitted between the third and the sixth month after discharge had a significantly higher CIRS total score (p = 0.006). Patients with multiple readmissions had more severe diseases, and more social problems. On multivariate analysis, early readmission was associated with unsatisfactory social conditions, living alone, severity of diseases and cognitive impairment, while late readmission was associated with comorbidity only. Multiple readmissions were related only to social factors, and to hospital admission before the baseline evaluation. The findings of this study suggest that interventions aimed at improving unfavorable social conditions may reduce the rate of rehospitalization in geriatric patients.
9842483	Nasal muscle F-wave for peri- and intraoperative diagnosis of facial nerve function.	A new method for recording F-waves from facial muscles in order to assess the function of the intracranial and intracanalicular portion of the facial nerve peri- and intraoperatively has been developed: Direct (M) and F-responses were obtained from the nasal muscle after stimulation of the zygomatic branch of the facial nerve of healthy volunteers. We examined a number of patients with likely or obvious dysfunction of the facial nerve, mostly suffering from cerebellopontine angle (CPA) tumors. F-wave findings were compared to blink reflex and transcranial magnetoelectric evoked potential recordings, the latter obtained from the nasal muscle. The F-wave turned out to be a sensitive parameter for the diagnosis of facial nerve dysfunction. The feasibility of intraoperative nasal muscle F-wave recording and its prognostic value are demonstrated. The nasal muscle F-wave is considered to be a valid parameter for the diagnosis of clinically imperceptible facial nerve lesions, especially of its intracranial portion.
9843233	Aortic dissection involving an aberrant right subclavian artery: CT and MR findings.	Three cases of aortic dissection involving an aberrant right subclavian artery are presented. Preoperative diagnosis was made based on CT and MRI. The association of dissection and aberrant right subclavian artery is rarely encountered; however, the diagnostic and therapeutic implications of these associations are important. We describe the chest radiographic, CT, and MR findings of this rare complication of a relatively common congenital vascular anomaly.
9846238	Body-scaled ratio as a control parameter for prehension in 5- to 9-year-old children.	The purpose of the experiment was threefold: (a) To find evidence that grasping is body-scaled and thus remains invariant during development; (b) to seek evidence that the body-scaled ratio of cube and hand size serves as a control parameter for the phase transition from one-handed to two-handed grasping by identifying the presence of sudden jump, enhanced variance, multistability, and hysteresis; and (c) to examine whether the stability properties of the observed grasping patterns increase with age. Thirty-three children aged 5, 7, and 9 years old were required to grasp and lift 14 cardboard cubes of different sizes (2.2, 3.2, 4.2, etc. to 16.2 cm diameter). Three conditions were used: (a) an increasing condition with sizes ordered from the smallest size to the largest; (b) a decreasing condition, with the sizes ordered from the largest to the smallest; and (c) twice in a different random order. Video recordings were analyzed and scored for the percentage of one-handed grasps. The results showed that the shift from one-handed to two-handed grasping occurred at the same body-scale ratio between cube size and finger span for all three age groups. Evidence was found for the presence of a sudden jump, enhanced variance, multistability, and hysteresis, indicating that the body-scaled ratio of cube and hand size serves as a control parameter. No change with age for the stability properties of the grasping patterns were observed.
9867155	Technetium-99m(V)-DMSA and gallium-67 in the assessment of bone and joint infection.	The aim of our study was to investigate the diagnostic value of scans with 99mTc(V)-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) to localize bone and joint infection compared with scans using 67Ga. METHODS: Thirty-six patients referred for investigation of bone and joint infection were studied. In all patients, a bone scan was obtained initially. Subsequently, comparative scans with 99mTc(V)-DMSA and 67Ga were performed 1 wk apart. Microbiological findings, pathologic findings and/or clinical follow-up (until symptoms disappeared) were considered to be proof of the presence of bone and joint infection. RESULTS: Technetium-99m (V)-DMSA showed greater sensitivity and accuracy than 67Ga in the assessment of bone and joint infection, although the difference was not statistically significant. CONCLUSION: In comparison with a 67Ga scan, a 99mTc(V)-DMSA scan, in combination with a bone scan, is a reliable way to diagnose bone and joint infection. Both tracers were useful in the diagnosis of bone and joint infection.
9878843	Indole-3-propionate: a potent hydroxyl radical scavenger in rat brain.	The hydroxyl radical scavenging activity of indole-3-propionate was evaluated by kinetic competition studies with the hydroxyl radical trapping reagent 2,2'-azino-bis-(3-ethyl-benz-thiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) and by measuring hydroxyl radical-initiated lipid peroxidation in the rat striatum. Using ABTS, the indole was shown to act as a potent hydroxyl radical scavenger with a rate constant of 7.8x1010 mol l-1 s-1. Hydroxyl radical-initiated lipid peroxidation, determined by measuring tissue malondialdehyde formation, was inhibited dose-dependently both in vitro and in vivo. Indole-3-propionate reacts with hydroxyl radicals at a diffusion controlled rate and can thereby provide on-site protection against the oxidative damage of biomolecules induced by these highly reactive and toxic oxygen intermediates. While it remains to be established if endogenous brain tissue levels of indole-3-propionate are sufficiently high to have a significant impact on total antioxidative capacity, the compound itself or a structurally related agent may be useful as an antioxidant adjuvant to combat hydroxyl radical-mediated oxidative stress.
9915152	Enteroplication in cats, using suture of N-butyl cyanoacrylate adhesive.	Enteroplication has been recommended to prevent recurrence of intussusception in dogs and cats. This study investigated the impact of enteroplication on subsequent function of the plicated small intestine as measured by transit time of barium impregnated polyethylene spheres (BIPS) and compared two methods of achieving enteroplication--sutures using polydioxanone and cyanoacrylate tissue adhesive. Twenty-two healthy young cats were used--four controls, nine sutured and nine glued. The mean +/-SD transit times before, one week after and four weeks after enteroplication were respectively 2.0+/-0.80 hours, 1.6+/-0.80 hours, 2.2+/-1.18 hours. There was no significant difference in transit time or in the time to create enteroplication in the two plicated groups. Maintenance of intestinal adhesion was greater for the sutured plications. There was no significant change in internal diameter with either technique. Adverse clinical signs after enteroplication were not severe, however, they were more prevalent in cats which had glued plication. The inflammation associated with the suture was of a greater depth initially but that associated with the adhesive was more widespread and persisted for the four weeks of the experiments. Enteroplication in cats was a relatively benign procedure which did not cause significant alterations in small intestinal function. However, cyanoacrylate tissue adhesive cannot be recommended for this clinical procedure.
9919034	Referring adult patients for orthodontic treatment.	BACKGROUND: An increasing number of adults are undergoing orthodontic treatment, but they still make up only a small proportion of all adults who could benefit from such therapy. The purpose of this article is to illustrate the appropriateness and value of orthodontic treatment in adults. METHODS: The authors review and summarize previous studies regarding adult orthodontic treatment. Data from these studies are compared to determine the prevalence of orthodontic treatment in adults, the reasons why many adults do not seek treatment and the outcomes of orthodontic treatment in adults. In addition, the authors describe a case to demonstrate how a combination of orthodontic therapy and orthognathic surgery can facilitate and complement prosthetic rehabilitation. RESULTS: Numerous studies indicate that two-thirds to three-fourths of adults possess some form of malocclusion, yet adults make up only 15 percent of all orthodontic patients. Reasons given by adults for not seeking treatment include a lack of awareness that orthodontic treatment can be performed in adults, apprehension about possible pain or discomfort and concern about social acceptance. However, most patients who underwent orthodontic treatment reported only mild discomfort of one to two days' duration, and only 20 percent of patients felt that the appliances had an adverse social effect. Overall, patients reported high levels of satisfaction with treatment. Orthognathic surgery in addition to orthodontics may be required for the most severe problems, and is compatible with subsequent fixed and removable prosthetic treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Adjunctive and comprehensive orthodontic treatment is feasible for adults of all ages. Correction of malocclusion makes it possible to improve the quality of periodontal and restorative treatment outcomes, in addition to providing psychosocial benefits. CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: General dentists are often the first dental professionals to suggest orthodontic treatment and to refer patients to orthodontic specialists. Moreover, with the growing emphasis on cosmetic dentistry, more adults are likely to seek information regarding orthodontic surgery. This article provides general dentists with the information needed to communicate with patients about treatment.
9931535	Effect of pulsed dexamethasone therapy on tolerance of intravenously administered lipids in extremely low birth weight infants.	We investigated the effect of dexamethasone on parenteral lipid tolerance in 7-day-old extremely low birth weight infants (n = 28) in a randomized, double-blind trial. Serum triglycerides were measured before and after 3 days of dexamethasone or placebo treatment. Infants treated with dexamethasone responded with higher triglyceride concentrations and greater sensitivity to incremental increases in the intravenous lipid dose.
9932830	AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma involving bone and bone marrow.	AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma rarely involves bone or bone marrow. Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis of an AIDS patient with lower back pain and bilateral limb edema revealed multiple lesions involving liver, spleen, and axial skeleton. Bone marrow examination of the involved iliac crest revealed Kaposi's sarcoma. Pathologic diagnosis is important so that appropriate treatment can be prescribed.
9949938	[Basic cognitive-perceptive module in schizophrenics]	A specific deficit in gaze discrimination has been hypothesized for schizophrenic patients (Rosse et al., 1994). Gaze discrimination is a basic ability for animals as well as for human beings. It plays an important role in mutual control of social interactions. According to Baron-Cohen (1995), sensitivity to eye gaze relies on a specific cognitive module, the Eye Direction Detector (EDD). The author distinguishes three basic functions of the EDD; first, the EDD is involved in eyes detection; second, the EDD is used in order to establish direction of gaze, and specially to compute whether the eyes one is looking at are directed to the subject or somewhere else; third, the EDD is implied in interpretation of gaze as seeing. Rosse et al. (1994) tested subjective impressions concerning gaze discrimination in a group of schizophrenic patients. Schizophrenics reported the subjective impression of being looked at by the portraits significantly more often than controls. The authors concluded that a specific impairment in gaze detection is present in the patients, and that it may be responsible for the paranoid symptoms often reported in schizophrenia. However, it seems difficult to assert that a response bias in schizophrenics toward perceiving faces as looking at them results from the deficit of an elementary perceptual module responsible for the detection of eye-direction. Rather we suspect such a bias to be the consequence of an impairment of the more complex level of mindreading, responsible for the interpretation of gaze as seeing in terms of mental states. The aim of the present experiment was to test in a more specific way the elementary gaze discrimination system. A series of portraits of models looking at five different directions (-30 degrees, -15 degrees, 0 degree, 15 degrees, 30 degrees), have been presented to 22 schizophrenic patients and 36 normal control subjects. In each trial one portrait was presented. Subjects were asked to determine the direction of its gaze by pressing the &quot;z-key&quot; (left side of the keyboard) if the portrait was looking to the left, and the &quot;/-key&quot; (right side of the keyboard) if the portrait was looking to the right. For each trial, we recorded both the side of the response (left key or right key) and the corresponding reaction time (RT). For the purpose of the analysis, the mean numbers of left responses were computed for each subject. The mean numbers of left responses recorded for each direction of gaze did not significantly differ between patients and controls. That is schizophrenic patients are not impaired in the gaze discrimination task used in the present study. In Rosse's experiment, subjects were required to decide whether the portrait on the screen was looking at them or not. On the contrary, in our task, subjects were simply required to state whether gaze was directed to the right or to the left. No explicit judgment was required as to whom or what gaze was directed. Therefore, we can assume that the present paradigm investigated the functioning of a more basic process than that tested by Rosse et al. Our data are consistent with those reporting that basic cognitive processes are unimpaired in schizophrenia, whereas explicit processes are extensively affected.
9950649	Powder densification. 1. Particle-particle basis for incorporation of viscoelastic material properties.	The present investigation was undertaken to examine the basic unit of densification: the particle-particle indentation. The true interparticle contact area that is established during densification ultimately determines the quality of the tablet compact. By examining the interfacial contact between mutually indenting viscoelastic particles, the process of contact evolution may be represented in mathematical form through extension of the classical Hertzian elastic contact description to encompass material viscoelastic terms. In this way, the time-dependent response of materials to applied loads may be addressed explicitly. The effects of rates of applied loading and maximum load levels were also considered. This analysis was based on viscoelastic stress data collected using an instrumented Instron analyzer during the densification of PMMA/coMMA, a pharmaceutical polymeric coating material. A crossed cylinder matrix compaction geometry was used to simulate the geometry of two mutually indenting spherical particles. Numerical and graphical solutions delineating the relationship between contact area evolution and the prescribed loading force are presented. This particle-particle description of the contacting interface serves as a unit basis for describing the entire powder bed. The powder bed may ultimately be modeled as a collection of these particles in contact.
9987711	Chemotherapy is effective as early treatment for primary central nervous system lymphoma.	Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a lymphoma arising within the brain or spinal cord in the absence of evident localisation outside the central nervous system (CNS). Poor results in the management of relapsed PCNSL justify the need for vigorous initial therapeutic regimens, and chemotherapy should not be reserved for recurrent disease. Chemotherapy (MBACOD scheme) was delivered prior to irradiation in a group of 20 PCNSL patients, another 8 PCNSL patients underwent radiotherapy only, and the overall survival was evaluated. Computed tomography (CT) images in the group of patients treated with chemotherapy, showed there to be 70% complete responders (CR), 15% non-responders (NR) and 15% partial responders (PR). Half of the CR were scheduled for radiotherapy only at tumour recurrence. The median disease-free period and survival time of the whole group treated with early chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy were 24 and 32 months, respectively, but in the subgroup of CR (70%), taking into account also the patients not yet receiving radiotherapy, these were 38 and 48 months, respectively. The disease-free and survival times in the group of CR (75%) of patients treated with radiotherapy only were 13 and 18 months, respectively. At tumour recurrence, CR to chemotherapy had a second disease-free period longer than 2 years after radiotherapy. Our data support the belief that in scheduling the treatment of PCNSL after histological diagnosis, the first step is to devise high-dose chemotherapy with drugs able to cross an intact blood-brain barrier. The results of our primary approach with early chemotherapy in PCNSL support a consensus to continue chemotherapy until tumour recurrence, and only at that event to initiate radiotherapy. It is a challenge and an option worthy of continuing investigation.
9989429	Glutamate and the UMAMI taste: sensory, metabolic, nutritional and behavioural considerations. A review of the literature published in the last 10 years.	Monosodium glutamate (MSG) is used increasingly often in processed foods and in home cooking in the Western world. This substance is responsible for a pleasurable taste sensation, the Umami taste. This review covers recent developments in sensory studies of glutamate effects, and traces the Umami taste from sensory receptors on the tongue to the brain. The metabolism of glutamic acid, as revealed from recent literature, is described. A specific section is devoted to safety issues. In addition, effects of glutamic salts on nutrition and ingestive behaviours are shown to be potent. Animal and human works are treated separately, with special attention to the specific methods used in both cases. Future areas of research include further investigation of sensory physiology, role of glutamate as an excitatory substance in the brain, acquisition of food likes and impact on long-term food selection, food intake, and body weight control.
10023504	Effect of acute intravenous clomipramine and antiobsessional response to proserotonergic drugs: is gender a predictive variable?	BACKGROUND: Previous studies on serotonergic responsivity in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) showed about 50% of patients experiencing an acute worsening of OC symptoms when administered meta-chlorophenylpiperazine or i.v. clomipramine. The aim of this study was to determine what variables influence the response to acute i.v. clomipramine. Could this response be predictive of the response to chronic treatment with two serotonergic drugs with differing selectivity profiles: clomipramine and fluvoxamine? METHODS: Fifty OC patients were consecutively recruited. All underwent a challenge with 25 mg i.v. clomipramine and placebo and were administered 10-week oral clomipramine or fluvoxamine according to a double-blind design. The efficacy of the antiobsessional treatment was evaluated by Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale and Clinical Global Impression scale scores. RESULTS: Obsessions worsened in 42% patients as rated by change values in 100-mm visual analogue scale scores for the clomipramine vs. placebo infusion. There was a significant difference in gender distribution between &quot;worsened&quot; and &quot;unchanged&quot; patients, since female subjects were more frequently &quot;unchanged.&quot; Thirty-one patients completed the 10-week treatment. According to both qualitative and quantitative evaluations, female subjects showed a better antiobsessional response, and this difference was enhanced in the clomipramine-treated group. CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest a role for reproductive hormones in the pathophysiology or treatment of OC patients.
10028614	Thermal characteristics of clothing ensembles for use in heat stress analysis.	The Heat Stress Index was an early model for the assessment of heat stress. The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard for required sweat rate is the current generation of heat balance methods for occupational heat stress. The method assumes cotton clothing and works adequately for cotton/polyester blends. To extend the usefulness of the model, the thermal characteristics of a variety of commercially available and prototype protective clothing ensembles have been determined for application in the ISO method. The fundamental principle for assessing thermal characteristics of work clothing is establishing the critical environmental conditions in which test subjects were just able to maintain thermal equilibrium. Critical conditions were found for warm, humid conditions; hot, dry conditions; intermediate conditions of temperature and humidity; and/or moderate conditions in which metabolic rate was increased to a limiting thermal load. Typically, five subjects at each condition for each ensemble were used. Metabolic rate, average skin temperature, and the environmental conditions (air temperature and vapor pressure) were noted at the critical conditions, and the total insulation was estimated for each ensemble. From these values, the total evaporative resistance, the clothing factor for dry heat exchange (CFcl), and the clothing factor for evaporative cooling (CFpcl) were determined. When compared with reports of others on thermal characteristics the results agreed when pumping factors and clothing wetness were considered. The result was higher than expected values for CFcl and lower values for CFpcl.
10051005	A common MSH2 mutation in English and North American HNPCC families: origin, phenotypic expression, and sex specific differences in colorectal cancer.	The frequency, origin, and phenotypic expression of a germline MSH2 gene mutation previously identified in seven kindreds with hereditary non-polyposis cancer syndrome (HNPCC) was investigated. The mutation (A-->T at nt943+3) disrupts the 3' splice site of exon 5 leading to the deletion of this exon from MSH2 mRNA and represents the only frequent MSH2 mutation so far reported. Although this mutation was initially detected in four of 33 colorectal cancer families analysed from eastern England, more extensive analysis has reduced the frequency to four of 52 (8%) English HNPCC kindreds analysed. In contrast, the MSH2 mutation was identified in 10 of 20 (50%) separately identified colorectal families from Newfoundland. To investigate the origin of this mutation in colorectal cancer families from England (n=4), Newfoundland (n=10), and the United States (n=3), haplotype analysis using microsatellite markers linked to MSH2 was performed. Within the English and US families there was little evidence for a recent common origin of the MSH2 splice site mutation in most families. In contrast, a common haplotype was identified at the two flanking markers (CA5 and D2S288) in eight of the Newfoundland families. These findings suggested a founder effect within Newfoundland similar to that reported by others for two MLH1 mutations in Finnish HNPCC families. We calculated age related risks of all, colorectal, endometrial, and ovarian cancers in nt943+3 A-->T MSH2 mutation carriers (n=76) for all patients and for men and women separately. For both sexes combined, the penetrances at age 60 years for all cancers and for colorectal cancer were 0.86 and 0.57, respectively. The risk of colorectal cancer was significantly higher (p&lt;0.01) in males than females (0.63 v 0.30 and 0.84 v 0.44 at ages 50 and 60 years, respectively). For females there was a high risk of endometrial cancer (0.5 at age 60 years) and premenopausal ovarian cancer (0.2 at 50 years). These intersex differences in colorectal cancer risks have implications for screening programmes and for attempts to identify colorectal cancer susceptibility modifiers.
10068273	Toward a leukemia treatment strategy based on the probability of stem cell death: an essay in honor of Dr. Emil J Freireich.	Dr. Emil J Freireich is a pioneer in the rational treatment of cancer in general and leukemia in particular. This essay in his honor suggests that the cell kill concept of chemotherapy of acute myeloblastic leukemia be extended to include two additional ideas. The first concept is that leukemic blasts, like normal hemopoietic cells, are organized in hierarchies, headed by stem cells. In both normal and leukemic hemopoiesis, killing stem cells will destroy the system; furthermore, both normal and leukemic cells respond to regulators. It follows that acute myelogenous leukemia should be considered as a dependent neoplasm. The second concept is that cell/drug interaction should be considered as two phases. The first, or proximal phase, consists of the events that lead up to injury; the second, or distal phase, comprises the responses of the cell that contribute to either progression to apoptosis or recovery. Distal responses are described briefly. Regulated drug sensitivity is presented as an example of how distal responses might be used to improve treatment.
10085614	Catamenial hemoptysis--a case report.	Thoracic endometriosis is rare. Its associated clinical syndromes should be considered in menstruating women with pneumothorax or hemoptysis. The availability of chest CT scanning and danazol provide new technique in diagnosis and therapy.
10107341	Anatomy of an instrument tray from central sterile supply to the operating room.	One can understand the importance of quality control measures to ensure that instrument trays meet specific standards on a consistent basis. The essence of the role of the quality control supervisor of CSS is to support the surgical services provided in the OR. Since technology is constantly changing, it is paramount that the quality control supervisor keep abreast of new knowledge and improve services to meet the needs of the OR.
10107995	Executive performance: the demands of the 1990s.	Top executives will be required to have strong leadership skills, combined with solid communication and team-building skills, to move their organizations through a decade that will promise tight fiscal constraint, increasing involvement in the decision-making process from medical staff, trustees, government officials and facility personnel. The evaluation of the chief executive officer (CEO) will continue along traditional lines with the development of goals and objectives in defined areas of accountability. There will, however, be increased emphasis on the development of measurable standards, and the CEO's ability to lead the organization, motivate the organization's people resources and reallocate resources to meet the organization's mission and the health care needs of the community.
10113356	Status quo won't work.	The division between those who provide health care services and those who pay for them may be widening. Costs continue to rise, quality remains ill-defined, and there don't seem to be any easy answers to the dilemma. Joseph W. Duva, Director of the New York Region Health/Welfare Benefits Consulting Practice of Ernst and Young, believes the answer has been found. While Director of Employee Benefits at Allied Signal Corp., he was instrumental in the formulation of a total managed health care plan for employees. He recently founded the Managed Health Care Association to share the experience at Allied Signal with others and to provide a business forum for exploration of the managed care concept. Duva's views on managed care as a cost containment strategy were the subject of an interview conducted by Physician Executive at the National Conference of Physician Executives in San Antonio in May.
10120670	Injured system.	Workers' compensation laws, designed to protect workers who incur job-related injuries and illnesses, are provoking outcries because of the rising costs of medical care.
10137001	Tort reform proposals: a toolbox for change.	Tort reform is controversial because of the need to balance cost considerations with the legitimate needs of plaintiffs who have suffered malpractice injury. In addition, proponents and opponents of the different proposals often formulate their positions based largely on anecdotal evidence and concerns of special interest groups rather than careful studies. As a result, it may be some time before malpractice reform is addressed comprehensively at the federal level, leaving the states to their own reform devices.
10137165	Making hospital advertisements more readable and more effective.	Hospitals and other health care organizations make continuing use of newspaper and magazine advertising as part of their marketing programs. However, many institutions have questioned the effectiveness of advertising because they have not achieved the results they had hoped for. Part of the problem may lie in the fact that many hospital advertisements violate the principles of good copywriting. Well written advertisements will draw larger readership, and should subsequently prove more effective in helping the institution achieve its communications objectives.
10139388	Utilization management and healthcare reform.	The reform movement in healthcare is occurring in response to financial pressures on American business. The trend toward managed care with competition-based discounting and capitation contracts is likely to continue even if Congress does not enact healthcare reform legislation. Efficient management of resources with acceptable outcomes and customer satisfaction is becoming increasingly crucial. As cost-shifting options are reduced, accurate knowledge and management of resource consumption costs become critical to enable hospitals to assume the financial risks associated with competing in any future capitation area. Hospitals must consider altering their approach to utilization management and business as usual to survive these changes.
10141004	HCI shows I/T commitment from the ground up.	Physicians now have extraordinary access to patient information at HCI's Medical Centre in Clydebank, Scotland. The boundaries for such access are international in intent and design. Opened last June, the center's commitment to electronic medical records is now paying off.
10142354	Telemedicine--a new idea for home care.	Telemedicine could prove to be an important tool in the delivery of home care. Early experience indicates that it keeps patients home, reducing emergency room visits, rehospitalization, and institutionalization. How does it work?
10163351	Effect of inhalation flow rate on the dosing characteristics of dry powder inhaler (DPI) and metered dose inhaler (MDI) products.	Both the dose delivered from the device and the particle size of the medication are important parameters for inhalation products because they influence the amount of drug that is delivered to the patient's lung. The inspiratory flow rate may vary from dose to dose in a given patient and between patients. The Marple-Miller Cascade Impactor, a new multistage inertial impactor that operates at two flow rates (30 and 60 liters/min) with comparable particle size cut-offs, provides a means to study the effect of inhalation flow rate on the particle size distributions of inhalation products. The medication delivery, mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), and fine particle mass were determined, in a randomized fashion, for albuterol, beclomethasone, budesonide, and terbutaline in both metered dose inhaler (MDI) and dry powder inhaler (DPI) products as a function of flow rate. In all cases, independent of drug or device used, the MDI products had a more reproducible respirable dose than the breath-actuated DPI products tested as a function of inhalation flow rate.
10192125	[Local digital anesthesia using lidocaine with or without bicarbonate. A comparative randomized study]	PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Local anesthesia with lidocaine is widely used in surgery of the extremities, particularly for fingers. Injection causes pain. In order to minimize this discomfort, addition of bicarbonate has been used by many authors. Results were however contradictory in relation with the difference of approaches. Our study is based on a randomized comparative series with and without lidocaine alcalinization. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Sixty patients presenting multidigital trauma concerning at least two fingers. For each patient, one finger was anesthetized by lidocaine 2 per cent alone and one by lidocaine 2 per cent plus bicarbonate 8.4 per cent respectively in proportion of 4/5 and 1/5. We compared the intensity of pain during injection by a scale ranging from 0 to 10. RESULTS: Significant difference was found between both groups (p &lt; 0.001), alcalinization appearing to decrease discomfort during injection. DISCUSSION: Mechanism of pain decrease by alcalinization is unclear. It appears that intracellular passage of non ionic form of lidocaine is facilitated by alcalinization. This allows the decrease of latence of lidocaine and relieve pain more rapidly by pain receptors blockade. CONCLUSION: Diminution of pain during anesthetic injection has major advantage in out-patient surgery of extremities, in ligamentar testing of digital articulations and in steroid injection.
10204198	Estimation of failure probabilities in the presence of competing risks: new representations of old estimators.	A topic that has received attention in both the statistical and medical literature is the estimation of the probability of failure for endpoints that are subject to competing risks. Despite this, it is not uncommon to see the complement of the Kaplan-Meier estimate used in this setting and interpreted as the probability of failure. If one desires an estimate that can be interpreted in this way, however, the cumulative incidence estimate is the appropriate tool to use in such situations. We believe the more commonly seen representations of the Kaplan-Meier estimate and the cumulative incidence estimate do not lend themselves to easy explanation and understanding of this interpretation. We present, therefore, a representation of each estimate in a manner not ordinarily seen, each representation utilizing the concept of censored observations being 'redistributed to the right.' We feel these allow a more intuitive understanding of each estimate and therefore an appreciation of why the Kaplan-Meier method is inappropriate for estimation purposes in the presence of competing risks, while the cumulative incidence estimate is appropriate.
10210497	Transmural atrial pacing in patients with postoperative congenital heart disease.	INTRODUCTION: Some patients with postoperative congenital heart disease require permanent cardiac pacing, but the use of transvenous or epicardial pacing leads may be limited by type of cardiac malformation, venous connections, body size, or fibrosis. Transmural atrial pacing may provide an alternative in difficult patients, but to date has been described in only a few articles with small patient numbers, and data from lead performance are lacking. METHODS AND RESULTS: Records were reviewed in 18 consecutive patients (4 months to 21 years old) with postoperative congenital heart disease receiving transmural atrial pacing leads from July 1994 to December 1996. Implantation materials and techniques were described. Lead sensing and capture thresholds obtained acutely and during short-term follow-up (mean: 11.0 months) were evaluated, and comparisons were made between patients with postoperative Fontan anatomy and non-Fontan patients, and between patients receiving steroid-eluting and nonsteroid leads. Overall, the median acute sensing and capture thresholds of transmural leads were 4.1 m V and 0.7 V at 0.5 msec, respectively. Median follow-up thresholds were 2.8 m V and 0.8 V, respectively. Performance of leads in Fontan patients was similar to those in non-Fontan patients. Steroid-eluting leads had a chronic capture threshold of 0.6 V versus 0.9 V for nonsteroid leads (P = 0.038). CONCLUSION: Transmural atrial pacing leads were successfully implanted in patients with diverse ages and types of postoperative congenital heart disease. Lead performance was acceptable both acutely and during the first year of follow-up.
10214366	[Effective treatment of malignant pleural effusion: Thoracoscopic talcum pleurodesis and pleuro-peritoneal shunt]	BASIC PROBLEM: Definitive palliation of malignant pleural effusion demands a therapeutic procedure that is efficient with a low risk of complication and death. This study was undertaken to evaluate the outcome of thoracoscopic talcum pleurodesis (TTP), with insertion of pleuro-peritoneal shunt (PPS) for permanent drainage, if indicated. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The results of treating malignant pleural effusions were analysed retrospectively in 36 patients (15 men, 21 women; mean age 65 [48-89] years) who had undergone 37 video-assisted TTP and 6 PPS. RESULTS: TTP achieved significant improvement of dyspnoea in 89% of patients and PPS succeeded in providing permanent internal drainage even in cases of adherent pleura. CONCLUSION: Video-assisted TTP is the method of choice in the palliative treatment of malignant pleural effusions in the still expanding lung. In case of an adherent nonexpanding lung PPS provides effective and permanent palliation.
10216242	Effects of high glucose on the hypoxic isolated guinea pig heart: interactions with ATP-dependent K+ channels?	The effect of perfusion with elevated glucose concentrations on hypoxic myocardium was investigated in isolated Langendorff guinea pig hearts. For that purpose, mechanical (heart rate, systolic peak pressure and coronary flow) and electrophysiological (monophasic action potential duration=MAP, ectopic beats) data were evaluated. At the end of the experiments the hearts were examined histologically after trypan blue vital staining for quantification of irreversible myocardial damage. In the absence of insulin moderate glucose elevation (from 5 to 15 mM) exerted beneficial effects on hypoxic hearts: the depressed contraction was improved, the action potential shortening partly reversed and the percentage of irreversibly damaged myocytes diminished. Glucose did not have any effect on heart rate and arrhythmias under hypoxia or reperfusion. A contribution of cardiac ATP-dependent K+ channels to the effects of glucose could be excluded by further experiments. Thus, blocking these channels with high glibenclamide concentrations did not affect the action of glucose on MAP and contraction. To some degree the glucose effect on MAP, but not on systolic pressure, was also observable under normoxic conditions.
10228352	[New therapeutic prospects in heart failure. ACE inhibitors and beta blockers]	Heart failure, still nowadays an important cause of morbidity and mortality in many countries, is a complex of symptoms related to inadequate peripheric perfusion and often to the retention of fluid, that results from an impaired left ventricular pump function. Treatment of heart failure has seen considerable changes in the last years. Short term goals of therapy are directed towards the relieve of symptoms that can be commonly managed by the use of vasodilators, diuretics, digoxin, in order to obtain an improvement in myocardial functional capacity and quality of life of patients. Nevertheless, it is important to recognize that improvement of symptoms is not necessarily correlated with correction of left ventricular dysfunction and, most important, with improvement of survival. In late 1980s both experimental and clinical observations carried out in an attempt to explain the progression of the disease and its poor long-term survival, led the physicians to think about heart failure as a neurohormonal disorder. This new conceptual model has first led to the widespread introduction of angiotensin converting inhibitors in clinical practice; then, the evidence that sympathetic activation might play an important role in the progression of heart failure, led the investigators to propose that beta-blocking agents might be useful in the management of heart failure. Accumulating clinical evidence indicates that beta blocker therapy, particularly with third generation beta-blocking agents, not only improves left ventricular function but also may reduce and reverse pathological remodeling in the heart. Ongoing large scale clinical trials may confirm the mounting evidence, from numerous clinical studies, that these agents may prolong survival in patients with heart failure.
10248688	Professional development of the BMET.	Acceptance of the BMET into the patient care picture, and recognition of the BMET as an equal contributor to quality patient care are central to the advancement of this relatively new career field. One factor in gaining this acceptance is the overall image presented by those who call themselves BMET's. An understanding of emerging professions and the effect of dress on image enhancement can provide useful insight into the phenomena of professional recognition. A second aspect of development important to any professional is continuing educational growth. A performance-evaluation scheme, stressing and promoting continuing education, is described in this paper.
10269311	Sexual harassment on the job: psychological, social and economic repercussions.	This article is an effort to shed new light on what has been commonly termed sexual harassment, to identify its forms and, most importantly, to explore its effect upon those who have been subjected to it. The author's hypothesis is that sexual harassment in the workplace is more a social phenomenon than a personal problem, and that it is the cause of lasting psychological, social and economic after-effects among its victims. Combatting sexual harassment is only part of the solution; we must look beyond its legal aspects to find ways of changing male-female occupational relationships, and we must provide support to victims of sexual harassment.
10327461	Inactivation of poliovirus by gamma irradiation of wastewater sludges.	The effect of gamma radiation on poliovirus infectivity seeded in sludge samples was investigated in order to determine the radiation dose required to inactivate 90% of viral infectivity (D10). Sludges were obtained from anaerobic pretreated sewages produced by San Felipe, a wastewater treatment facility located at the Tucuman province, Argentina. A D10 of 3.34 kGy was determined for poliovirus type III, Sabin strain, suspended in sludge samples. This value dropped to 1.92 kGy when the virus was suspended in water. A virucidal effect associated to sludges was also demonstrated. These results will be of interest when considering the dose of gamma radiation to be applied to wastewater sludges in order to preserve the environment from viral contamination.
10332473	Kidney transplantation in children: a single center experience.	PURPOSE: We reviewed our most recent 10-year experience with kidney transplantation in children to determine the morbidity and mortality of the procedure, and to identify factors that affected outcome. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 107 renal transplants were done in 95 children 1 to 17 years old (mean age 10.9) during the 10-year period ending January 1, 1997. The 4 most common causes of end stage renal disease were renal dysplasia, reflux nephropathy, obstructive uropathy and systemic immunological diseases. Cyclosporine based immunosuppression was used in all but 2 recipients. After April 1991 antilymphocyte antibody induction, coagulopathy screening, systemic anticoagulation and cytomegalovirus prophylaxis were incorporated into the protocols. The effects of kidney source, recipient gender, recipient age, preformed anti-HLA antibody level, preemptive renal transplantation, cytomegalovirus risk, antilymphocyte antibody induction therapy and date of renal transplantation on kidney graft survival were examined with the log rank test. RESULTS: The 1-year graft and patient survival rates were 91 and 99%, respectively. The most common causes of graft failure were rejection and recurrence of primary renal disease. The only factors that significantly (p &lt; 0.05) influenced graft survival were antilymphocyte antibody induction immunosuppression and kidney transplantation after April 1991. Three urological complications required surgical correction. Medical morbidity included hypertension in 48.6% of the cases, short stature in 46.6% and obesity in 58.9%. CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric renal transplantation can be done with acceptable morbidity, a low rate of technical complications and low mortality. Hypertension, chronic rejection and abnormal body habitus continue to be problematic.
10333941	Mortality and hormone-related exposures in women with diabetes.	OBJECTIVE: Hormone-related events and exposures are related to mortality and especially to cardiovascular disease in women. We evaluated whether such exposures influenced risk in a well-defined group of women with diabetes. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Women with younger- and older-onset diabetes who were identified during a population-based study were queried about number of pregnancies, age at menarche, use of oral contraceptives, use of estrogen replacement therapy, and menopausal status at examinations in 1984-1986. Analyses are limited to women aged > or = 18 years (n = 398 and 542 in those with younger- and older-onset diabetes, respectively). Cohort mortality was monitored carefully, and causes of death were abstracted from death certificates. RESULTS: There were 58 deaths in the first group and 338 deaths in the second group since the 1984-1986 examination. The number of pregnancies was significantly associated with all-cause mortality (hazard ratio, 0.96 [95% CI 0.92-1.00]) in older-onset women only. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest and are compatible with the notion that the hormone exposures examined are unrelated to cardiovascular mortality in women with diabetes, with the exception of a minimal effect of the number of pregnancies in older-onset women. Whether there is a difference in these exposure-outcome relationships between women with diabetes and those without diabetes is uncertain and requires further investigation.
10337524	Huge hamartoma with inverted papilloma in the nasal cavity.	We report clinical experience in managing a 46-year-old Japanese man with long-standing nasal obstruction resulting from a huge left nasal mass. Computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and biopsy were used to make a provisional diagnosis of inverted papilloma. The mass was resected via a frontal approach combined with rhinotomy. Histopathologic examination of the resected specimen was consistent with a hamartoma that included an inverted papilloma on a portion of its surface. In addition to being rare tumors in the nasal cavity, we believe that our patient's tumor the largest nasal hamartoma ever reported.
10340020	Medical versus surgical abortion: a survey of knowledge and attitudes among abortion clinic patients.	A survey of 405 abortion clinic patients identified confusion regarding the purpose of RU 486 and lack of commitment to required follow-up visits, suggesting a need for widespread educational efforts.
10343813	Rival ideas about binocular rivalry.	Binocular rivalry has been used to investigate neural correlates of visual awareness. For this investigation to succeed, however, it is necessary to know what rivals during binocular rivalry. Recent work has raised questions about whether rivalry is between eyes or between stimuli. We find that stimulus rivalry occurs only within a limited range of spatial and temporal parameters--otherwise eye rivalry dominates.
10353282	Preparing chief information officers for the clinical information systems environment.	Over the past decade, the chief information officer (CIO) in the health care enterprise has gained recognition as a member of the senior management team based on an understanding of business processes and business language. The clinical information system (CIS) in the health care environment poses a new frontier for CIOs, who are generally unfamiliar with both clinical languages and clinical processes. The authors discuss the role formal informatics training can have in preparing learners for future careers as CIOs in CIS environments. The health information management (HIM) specialization within the MBA program at the University of Illinois at Chicago is one example of an educational program designed to train future CIOs who can manage the business, technical, and clinical aspects of the health care environment.
10360695	Prospective analysis of preoperative and intraoperative investigations for the diagnosis of infection at the sites of two hundred and two revision total hip arthroplasties.	BACKGROUND: Total hip arthroplasty is a commonly performed procedure in the United States and Canada that is associated with a definite risk of postoperative infection. Moreover, diagnosing an infection after total hip arthroplasty can present a challenge as there are no preoperative tests that are consistently sensitive and specific for infection in patients who need a revision arthroplasty. The present prospective study was performed to evaluate a variety of investigations for the diagnosis of infection at the site of a previous arthroplasty in order to determine if any combination of diagnostic studies could be used to determine which patients are at risk for a postoperative wound infection. METHODS: We prospectively analyzed the preoperative and intraoperative investigations used for the diagnosis of infection in 178 patients who had a total of 202 revision hip replacements. Clinical data were collected preoperatively. Investigations to determine the presence or absence of infection included a white blood-cell count, measurement of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, measurement of the level of C-reactive protein, preoperative aspiration of the joint, intraoperative gram-staining and culture of periprosthetic tissue, a white blood-cell count in synovial fluid, and examination of intraoperative frozen sections. Frozen sections were analyzed in a blinded fashion without knowledge of clinical or laboratory data. Patients receiving antibiotics at the time of aspiration or collection of specimens for intraoperative culture were excluded from the analysis of those investigations, regardless of the results of the cultures. A positive result (suggestive of infection) was clearly defined for each of the investigations. RESULTS: Thirty-five hips (17 percent) were determined to be infected on the basis of clinical findings and positive results, according to the defined criteria, of investigations. With inflammatory conditions excluded, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 0.82, 0.85, 0.58, and 0.95, respectively, for the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and 0.96, 0.92, 0.74, and 0.99, respectively, for the level of C-reactive protein. All patients who had a periprosthetic infection had an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate or level of C-reactive protein, but not always both. When patients who were receiving antibiotics were excluded, the results of aspiration of the joint were 0.86 for sensitivity, 0.94 for specificity, 0.67 for the positive predictive value, and 0.98 for the negative predictive value. Intraoperative studies revealed sensitivities, specificities, positive predictive values, and negative predictive values of 0.19, 0.98, 0.63, and 0.89, respectively, for gram-staining of specimens of the most inflamed-appearing tissue; 0.36, 0.99, 0.91, and 0.90, respectively, for the white bloodcell count in synovial fluid; and 0.89, 0.85, 0.52, and 0.98, respectively, for a neutrophil count in synovial fluid of more than 80 percent. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 0.80, 0.94, 0.74, and 0.96, respectively, for the frozen sections and 0.94, 0.97, 0.77, and 0.99, respectively, for the intraoperative cultures. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein level is reliable for predicting the absence of infection. Aspiration should be used when the erythrocyte sedimentation rate or the C-reactive protein level is elevated or when a clinical suspicion of infection remains. We found the gram stain to be unreliable. Examination of intraoperative frozen sections is useful in equivocal cases or when hematological markers may be falsely elevated because of an inflammatory or other condition.
10379588	Transvenous Doppler guidewire sonographic monitoring during treatment of a complex vertebral arteriovenous fistula associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.	A Doppler sonographic guidewire was used to monitor incremental changes in draining vein (DV) flow during endovascular occlusion of a complex vertebral arteriovenous fistula (AVF) in a patient with neurofibromatosis type 1. Transvenous monitoring of average peak velocity (APV) and the maximum-minus-minimum peak velocity (MxPV-MnPV) demonstrated a progression from a highly pulsatile, fast flow before embolization to a nonpulsatile, slow flow indicating a successful occlusion of the AVF (hemodynamic endpoint of treatment). Prior to this, apparent angiographic occlusion of the AVF was thought to signify a successful endpoint; however, persistently elevated values for APV and MxPV-MnPV in the DV signalled the presence of an additional contralateral arterial contribution. Transvenous monitoring of flow velocity appears to be ideally suited to establishing a hemodynamic endpoint of embolotherapy in the presence of complex arteriovenous shunting, as may occur with the vasculopathy of neurofibromatosis.
10381276	N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine in atherosclerotic vascular lesions as a marker for local oxidative stress.	Previous studies suggested that N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML), as the major product of oxidative degradation of glycated proteins and unsaturated fatty acids, represents an integrative biomarker for oxidative stress. In the present study, the level of CML in morphologically normal as well as atherosclerotic vessel walls are immunohistochemically analyzed and the in vitro formation of CML determined from glycoxidation and lipid peroxidation processes. The analysis revealed negative staining results in normal arterial walls of fetal, juvenile and young adult origin. A minor positive staining was seen in normal arteries from adults between 40 and 60 years of age with a rise in the CML-staining further increasing with rising individual age. This staining was mainly restricted to the intimal extracellular matrix and there was no intracellular staining. In arteriosclerotic vessels, in contrast, the extracellular CML-staining was significantly increased by approximately 3-fold also affecting the vascular media and adventitia. A strong intracellular staining was seen in macrophages. The degree of CML-staining correlated with the extent of the atherosclerotic changes. The in vitro studies showed a slow formation of CML of glycated proteins under aerobic conditions. No CML was formed under anaerobic conditions. Unsaturated fatty acids revealed a much faster formation of CML which reached high levels. The addition of vitamin E did not substantially suppress the CML-formation. The data suggest that the endogenous biomarker CML for oxidative stress accumulates slowly in normal arterial walls. This process is significantly increased in atherosclerosis. While the accumulation of CML in the extracellular matrix seemed to be the result of ongoing glycoxidation, the significant intracellular CML-formation in macrophages may have resulted from lipid peroxidation.
10383615	Horizontal cells of the rabbit retina are non-selectively connected to the cones.	Mammalian horizontal cells have generally been assumed to be spectrally non-selective in their cone contacts until recently, when specific contacts have been found for some species. The rabbit retina is frequently studied as a representative of dichromatic mammalian retinae. These are the reasons for elucidating the connections of the two types of horizontal cells (A-HCs and B-HCs) with the green-sensitive and blue-sensitive cones of the rabbit retina. Individual A-HCs and B-HCs were revealed by Lucifer Yellow injections, the total cone population overlying them was stained using peanut agglutinin, and the blue cones among these were identified by the antiserum JH 455 against blue cone opsin. Both A-HCs and B-HCs indiscriminately contact the two cone types available. This holds for the green cone-dominated dorsal retina and the blue cone-dominated ventral retina. No evidence was found for a third, potentially blue cone-selective, horizontal cell type [postulated by Famiglietti, E. V. (1990) Brain Res., 535, 174-179].
10386078	Analytic approaches for the evaluation of costs.	Currently, economic evaluation of new medical therapies is conducted routinely. Development of an analysis plan before performance of the analysis is a first step in the analysis of data from such evaluations. Univariate analysis of costs can be performed with both parametric and nonparametric tests. Potential multivariable analyses include ordinary least squares regression, nonparametric hazard models, parametric failure time models, Cox semiparametric regression, and joint distributions of survival and cost. In addition to developing point estimates for economic outcomes, 95% confidence intervals for cost-effectiveness ratios should be developed to evaluate the level of uncertainty that surrounds these estimates. Sensitivity analysis should be used to address other sources of uncertainty.
10399897	Individualizing therapy to prevent long-term consequences of estrogen deficiency in postmenopausal women.	BACKGROUND: Alendronate sodium and raloxifene hydrochloride were recently approved for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis, but data on their clinical efficacy are limited. We compared these drugs with hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to help women and physicians guide postmenopausal treatment decisions. OBJECTIVE: To help physicians understand how they can best help women choose the most beneficial therapy after menopause based on their individual risk profile. METHODS: We developed a decision analytic Markov model to compare the effects of alendronate therapy, raloxifene therapy, and HRT on risks of hip fracture, coronary heart disease (CHD), breast cancer, and life expectancy. Regression models linked individual risk factors to future disease risks and were modified by drug effects on bone density, lipid levels, and associated breast cancer effects. RESULTS: Hormone replacement therapy, alendronate therapy, and raloxifene therapy have similar predicted efficacies in preventing hip fractures (estimated relative risk, 0.57, 0.54, and 0.58, respectively). Hormone replacement therapy should be more than 10 times more effective than raloxifene therapy in preventing CHD, but raloxifene therapy may not induce breast cancer. Women at low risk for hip fracture, CHD, and breast cancer do not benefit significantly from any treatment. Among women at average risk, HRT was preferred unless raloxifene therapy could reduce the risk of breast cancer by at least 66%, compared with a 47% increase for HRT. Women at high risk for CHD benefit most from HRT; women at high risk for breast cancer but low risk for CHD benefit most from raloxifene therapy, but only if it lowers the risk of breast cancer. CONCLUSION: Because of significant differences in the impact of these drugs, treatment choice depends on an individual woman's risk for hip fracture, CHD, and breast cancer.
10400150	A system for radiological protection of the environment: some initial thoughts and ideas.	Radiological protection has always been based on protection of man. Protection of the environment is often assumed to be implicit in the application of radiological protection generally, but this assumption is increasingly being challenged. It is therefore time to consider the feasibility of developing a complementary system for protecting the environment itself from ionising radiation, which would be both explicit and applicable to a wide range of situations. This paper outlines a possible approach using reference dose models and different types of dose effects.
10404462	Neonatal Marfan syndrome: a case report.	A case of neonatal Marfan syndrome is presented. The patient was noted to have cardiomegaly and tricuspid regurgitation on antenatal ultrasound scan. She was born with long, slender fingers and toes, an aged appearance and non-paralytic hypotonia. Echocardiogram revealed a dilated right atrium, right ventricle, dysplastic tricuspid valve and severe tricuspid regurgitation. She subsequently died of severe heart failure. Post-mortem examination showed the pathological features of lobar emphysema and cystic medial necrosis of the aorta. These features supported the diagnosis of neonatal Marfan syndrome. Nucleotide sequencing showed substitution of G by A at codon 1032 in exon 25 located in the long arm of chromosome 15. This resulted in the substitution of a cysteine by a tyrosine. A de novo mutation is suggested by the absence of affected family members.
10404712	The effect of naloxone on adrenocorticotropin and cortisol release: evidence for a reduced response in depression.	BACKGROUND: Endogenous opioid peptides inhibit the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis by influencing the release of hypothalamic corticotropin releasing factors. This study examines whether increased activity of the HPA axis in major depression is associated with reduced opioid tone. METHODS: We measured the adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and cortisol responses to an intravenous bolus of naloxone 0.125 microg/kg in 13 depressed outpatients and 13 healthy volunteers. RESULTS: The mean cortisol response was significantly reduced (P&lt;0.05), and the ACTH response was also non-significantly reduced in the depressed subjects. CONCLUSIONS: These findings imply that the degree of inhibitory endogenous opioid tone is reduced in depression. Various mechanisms for the finding are discussed, including possible alteration in the function of alpha-adrenergic pathways. CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Reduced endogenous opioid tone may explain why some depressed individuals self-medicate with opiates, and depression is associated with opiate withdrawal. Opioid pathways may have a role in the mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs, and may be of relevance in the development of novel antidepressants. LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY: The sample size was small, leading to a failure of the difference of the basal cortisol levels and also the delta ACTH between the groups to reach statistical significance.
10415999	At home management of aplastic phase following high-dose chemotherapy with stem-cell rescue for hematological and non-hematological malignancies.	BACKGROUND: After high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem-cell support long hospital stays in the aplastic phase are expensive, lead to increased risk of hospital infections and to increasing pressure on available hospital beds. We developed a home care regimen that allows patients to be at home for most of the aplastic period, without daily hospital visits. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between October 1995 and December 1997, transfer of supportive care to the home setting took place in three phases for patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy with stem-cell transplant for malignant lymphoma (one course of BEAM), breast cancer or germ-cell cancer (three courses of tCTC). In the inpatient cohort, the supportive care designed for at home use was administered in the hospital until neutrophile recovery to 0.5 x 10(9)/l. In the second, outpatient cohort, patients were discharged the day after stem-cell reinfusion but the supportive care was delivered daily in hospital. The third, home care cohort, consisted of patients who were discharged the day after stemcell reinfusion, after which specialized home care professionals delivered all supportive care including transfusions and parenteral antibiotics at home, with once weekly check-up in hospital by the transplant physician. RESULTS: Forty-two patients were treated with 81 cycles of high-dose chemotherapy (11, 18 and 13 patients and 17, 40 and 24 courses in the inpatient, outpatient and home care cohorts respectively). Inpatients were hospitalized in the aplastic phase for a median of 14 days. Patients in the outpatient cohort were at home in the aplastic phase for a median of six days (with a median of six days in hospital), and in the home care cohort for a median of 10 days (with a median of 1.5 days in hospital). Unscheduled readmissions and hospital visits were frequent in the outpatient and home care cohorts, mostly due to fever, central indwelling catheter malfunctioning or chemotherapy-related toxicity. However, patients could usually be discharged again after observation and treatment. No infectious deaths or unexpected emergencies occurred in the outpatient or home care cohort. Neither was there any suggestion of an increased number of fevers, infections, or other complications. CONCLUSIONS: At home management in the aplastic phase after high-dose chemotherapy and stemcell transplant by community-based professionals is feasible without signs of increased toxicity or infections.
10421819	Interaction between haemopoietic regulation and airway inflammation.	Asthma is characterized by reversible airway narrowing, by airway hyperresponsiveness, and by airway inflammation. Inhaled allergens are the most important of the stimuli known to cause asthma. Methods for studying inhaled allergen in the laboratory have been well standardized and extensively used for the investigation of the pathophysiology and the pharmacological modulation of allergen-induced airway responses. Allergen inhalation by a sensitized subject results in an early asthmatic response, and, in the majority of subjects, a late asthmatic response and airway hyperresponsiveness. The late response and airway hyperresponsiveness are associated with increases in airway eosinophils and metachromatic cells. Allergen-induced airway inflammation in dogs (predominantly neutrophilic) is associated with increased granulocyte-macrophage progenitors in bone marrow, which is dependent on the effects of a circulating serum factor stimulating the bone marrow. The newly formed cells traffic to the airways. These increases in granulocyte-macrophage progenitors are blocked by inhaled corticosteroids. In human subjects, allergen-induced eosinophilic inflammation is associated with increases in Eo/B progenitors, mediated through up-regulation if the IL-5 receptor on progenitors and increases responsiveness to IL-5. Inhaled corticosteroids also attenuate all allergen-induced physiological responses and airway inflammation, an effect possibly mediated, in part, through inhibition of eosinophil and basophil maturation or release from the bone marrow.
10442986	Applicability of bovine microsatellite markers for population genetic studies on African buffalo (Syncerus caffer).	The applicability of bovine autosomal microsatellite markers for population genetic studies on African buffalo was investigated. A total of 168 microsatellite markers were tested for PCR amplification on a test panel of seven African buffalo. Amplification was observed for 139 markers (83%), and 101 markers were studied further with 91 (90%) being polymorphic. The mean number of alleles per marker was 5.0 (SE = 0.2) and the mean heterozygosity per marker was 0.61 (SE = 0.03). Considering the overall high level of polymorphism, it was concluded that most bovine microsatellite markers are applicable in African buffalo.
10446719	The use of babassu oil as substrate to produce bioemulsifiers by Candida lipolytica.	Candida lipolytica IA 1055 produced an extracellular emulsifier when using babassu oil as its sole carbon source during batch and fed batch fermentations at 27 degrees C. Emulsification activity was detected after 60 h of growth in all conditions studied. The bioemulsifier was isolated after 144 h of fermentation from the best condition studied. The biopolymer seems to be a polysaccharide-protein-lipid complex.
10452727	Use of medicines by older people in a large British national survey, and their relation to vitamin status indices.	OBJECTIVE: To describe the extent of use of medicines by older people living in Britain, and to explore relationships with vitamin status indices. DESIGN: The National Diet and Nutrition Survey of people aged 65 years and over collected data from a British sample during 1994-95. The present study has made novel use of it, to relate medicine use with biochemical indices of vitamin status. SETTING: Eighty postcode areas, selected randomly from mainland Britain. SUBJECTS: 1506 people, 65 years and over gave information about use of medication, and a 4-day weighed food record. Three-quarters gave blood for status indices. RESULTS: 78% of those living in the community and 93% of those in institutions were using medication. Certain vitamin status indices: plasma retinol, erythrocyte folate and riboflavin, paradoxically suggested better status in users than in non-users of antihypertensive, gastrointestinal, central nervous system, corticosteroid or diabetic drugs. There was evidence of a link with renal insufficiency, especially for plasma retinol, but neither this nor increased nutrient intake, acute phase effects or haemoconcentration could explain the paradoxical associations. CONCLUSIONS: Caution is needed in interpreting certain vitamin status indices, especially in older people who are extensively using medicines. New vitamin indices are needed, to avoid confounding interferences.
10459884	The impact of stroke on informal carers: a literature review.	Stroke incidence is set to rise in Western societies as population projections predict an increase in the proportion of older people. Most of these stroke survivors are supported by close kin members who play an important role in the rehabilitation and care of this group. The objective of this review was to establish the following: (a) to evaluate the impact of the stroke on the informal carers' quality of life, (b) to identify factors which help carers to cope with their caring role, (c) to evaluate health service provision for stroke carers. A systematic literature search using BIDS-EMBASE, MEDLINE and PSYCHLIT, identified 31 relevant studies. These showed that most studies concentrated on carers' psychological health and the negative impact that the stroke had. Carers ability to cope with the stroke was enhanced both by the use of positive coping strategies and more concrete measures e.g. more stroke information. Furthermore, whilst most carers were generally satisfied with health services, the few interventions directed at improving carer outcomes showed mixed results. The studies reviewed had many limitations; few gave definitions of 'informal' carer and there was a predominant use of cross-sectional studies and non-standardised outcome measures. Future studies should broaden their research question to evaluate quality of life, using standardised measures to do this and employing either a longitudinal or randomised control design to improve the robustness of results. More studies are also needed evaluating the effectiveness of health services on carers' quality of life.
10474880	[Significance of combined anterior cruciate ligament and meniscus injury]	The combined lesion of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) with simultaneous or secondary meniscal tears has severe consequences for the knee joint. By a synopsis of the literature and own experimental investigations in sheep it can be shown that in ACL deficient knees secondary meniscal lesions occur, what finally ends in osteoarthrosis. The combined lesion of the ACL and the meniscus results in a more severe damage of the joint than the sum of the single lesions. ACL reconstruction in these cases is very important, because meniscal tears cannot heal in unstable knees. On the other hand resections of the menisci have to be avoided, because the loss of these secondary stabilizers and synergists of the ACL increases the risk of joint degeneration.
10490791	Dietary underreporting is prevalent in middle-aged British women and is not related to adiposity (percentage body fat).	OBJECTIVE: To determine the phenotypic and dietary characteristics of energy underreporters in a healthy population of middle-aged women using accurate body composition measures. DESIGN: Cross-sectional study of 436 healthy middle-aged female volunteers, unaware of any hypotheses regarding diet and body fat: mean age 58 y (39-70 y), body mass index (BMI) 24.3 kg/m2 (17.0-41.9 kg/m2). The prevalence of overweight (25.0 > BMI > 29.9 kg/m2) and obesity (BMI > 30 kg/m2) were 30% and 5% respectively. MEASUREMENTS: Dietary intake by food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) (n = 436), 197 subjects also completed seven-day food records; body composition by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA); physical activity by standardised questionnaire. Underreporters were subjects whose estimated energy expenditure (EE) exceeded reported energy intake (EI). Three cut-off levels of underreporting were determined from estimates of EE utilising DXA body composition measures: basal, and two including EE from physical activity (using the ratio 1.35 or ratios from reported physical activity level). RESULTS: Underreporters had significantly greater weight (P &lt; 0.01), BMI (P &lt; 0.01), total fat P &lt; 0.05), fat free mass (P &lt; 0.0001), but not adiposity (% body fat) than adequate-reporters, at each of the three cut-off levels. Underreporters reported significantly lower intakes of energy and all macronutrients (P &lt; 0.0001). Expressed as a percentage of EI, the reported diet of underreporters was significantly lower in fat, similar in carbohydrate and higher in protein. Similar results were found with seven-day food record data, although reported intakes from these were significantly lower than those from FFQ. The prevalence of underreporting was highest in obese subjects (defined by BMI only), with up to 65% of these subjects underreporting EI and in the highest BMI tertile (prevalence of 57%). In those with BMI &lt; 24.9 kg/m2, the maximal prevalence rate of underreporting was 43%. Importantly, however, the rates of underreporting were similar between tertiles of adiposity. Most (68%), but not all, underreporters were found in the lowest tertile for reported EI. CONCLUSIONS: A low reported EI and greater BMI may help identify energy underreporters. However, whilst underreporters may more frequently be 'bigger' (by BMI), they are not necessarily fatter (using direct measures of body fat). As underreporting was present among all tertiles of BMI and adiposity, these results emphasise the importance of following past recommendations to identify and exclude energy underreporters in nutritional studies. Where underreporters have not been excluded, reported nutrition-disease relationships must remain in doubt.
10507115	[Use of skin expansion in resurfacing defective amputation stumps of the lower limbs. 6 case reports]	Better procedures and materials have enabled us to improve the results of skin expansion under knee level and extend its indications. We have used such procedures to cover defective amputation stumps in the lower extremity. When the local conditions are suitable, skin expansion permits the use of healthy skin from the lateral sides of the stump to provide coverage for the ulcerated areas, thus fulfilling the main goals which are to keep the bone shaft as long as possible and cover the stump with sensitive skin, so that a prosthesis can be fitted. In two cases, we also performed skin expansion at a distance to reduce the residual scar at the donor site (expanded flap from the other leg, expanded full-thickness skin graft) when the amount of healthy skin available around the stump was insufficient; the functional results were satisfactory. Skin expansion has become a choice strategy for this type of indication, but it must be performed perfectly to avoid complications or failures (our two first cases). It is important to take precautions at various stages of the operation which must be carefully staged.
10511797	Regulation of transmitter release from retinal bipolar cells.	Mb1 bipolar cells (ON-type cells) of the goldfish retina have exceptionally large (approximately 10 microns in diameter) presynaptic terminals, and thus, are suitable for investigating presynaptic mechanisms for transmitter release. Using enzymatically dissociated Mb1 bipolar cells under whole-cell voltage clamp, we measured the Ca2+ current (ICa), the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), and membrane capacitance changes associated with exocytosis and endocytosis. Release of transmitter (glutamate) was monitored electrophysiologically by a glutamate receptor-rich neuron as a probe. L-type Ca2+ channels were localized at the presynaptic terminals. The presynaptic [Ca2+]i was strongly regulated by cytoplasmic Ca2+ buffers, the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger and the Ca2+ pump in the plasma membrane. Once ICa was activated, a steep Ca2+ gradient was created around Ca2+ channels; [Ca2+]i increased to approximately 100 microM at the fusion sites of synaptic vesicles whereas up to approximately 1 microM at the cytoplasm. The short delay (approximately 1 ms) of exocytosis and the lack of prominent asynchronous release after the termination of ICa suggested a low-affinity Ca2+ fusion sensor for exocytosis. Depending on the rate of Ca2+ influx, glutamate was released in a rapid phasic mode as well as a tonic mode. Multiple pools of synaptic vesicles as well as vesicle cycling seemed to support continuous glutamate release. Activation of protein kinase C increased the size of synaptic vesicle pool, resulting in the potentiation of glutamate release. Goldfish Mb1 bipolar cells may still be an important model system for understanding the molecular mechanisms of transmitter release.
10524709	Amino acid efflux and cell volume regulation in cerebrocortical minislices prepared from chronically hyponatraemic and hypernatraemic rats.	The rates of efflux of pre-loaded amino acids, and associated steady-state volumes, were measured in cells in cerebrocortical minislices prepared from chronically (4 day) hypo- and hypernatraemic rats. The findings were compared with those obtained when cells from normonatraemic rats were acutely exposed to comparable levels of anisosmotic stress. In the presence of 122 mmol/l Na+ cells from normal rats showed increases in the rates of efflux of D-aspartate and GABA, and significant swelling (both by comparison with levels in media containing 142 mmol/l Na+). Conversely there was no acceleration of efflux in cells from hyponatraemic rats (plasma Na+ = 119-126 mmol/l) and volumes were preserved at levels comparable with those in isomotically incubated cells from normal rats. In media containing 164 mmol/l Na+ amino acid efflux in cells from normal rats was retarded, and shrinkage occurred. In cells from chronically hypernatraemic rats (plasma Na+ = 160-166 mmol/l) the rates of efflux of D-aspartate and D-glutamate were accelerated by comparison with cells from normal rats, with volume preservation. However there was no increase in the rate of GABA or glycine efflux, and cell swelling was observed. It is concluded (i) that during chronic hyponatraemia the presence of D-aspartate or GABA is associated with cell volume preservation, (ii) during chronic hypernatraemia acidic, but not neutral, amino acids are also effective in this respect, and (iii) that the markedly differing patterns of efflux responses to acute and chronic anisosmotic stress are likely to reflect chronic volume-regulatory adaptations of the efflux mechanism(s).
10525763	Accuracy of MRI-guided stereotactic thalamic functional neurosurgery.	Our goal was to evaluate the accuracy of stereotactic technique using MRI in thalamic functional neurosurgery. A phantom study was designed to estimate errors due to MRI distortion. Stereotactic mechanical accuracy was assessed with the Suetens-Gybels-Vandermeulen (SGV) angiographic localiser. Three-dimensional MRI reconstructions of 86 therapeutic lesions were performed. Their co-ordinates were corrected from adjustments based on peroperative electrophysiological data and compared to those planned. MR image distortion (maximum: 1 mm) and chemical shift of petroleum oil-filled localiser rods (2.2 mm) induced an anterior target displacement of 2.6 mm (at a field strength of 1.5 T, frequency encoding bandwidth of 187.7 kHz, on T1-weighted images). The average absolute error of the stereotactic material was 0.7 mm for anteroposterior (AP), 0.5 mm for mediolateral (ML) and 0.8 mm for dorsoventral (DV) co-ordinates (maximal absolute errors: 1.6 mm, 2.2 mm and 1.7 mm, respectively; mean euclidean error: 1 mm). Three-dimensional MRI reconstructions showed an average absolute error of 0.8 mm, 0.9 mm and 1.9 mm in AP, ML and DV co-ordinates, respectively (maximal absolute errors: 2.4 mm, 2.7 mm and 5.7 mm, respectively; mean euclidean error: 2.3 mm). MRI distortion and chemical-shift errors must be determined by a phantom study and then compensated for. The most likely explanation for an average absolute error of 1.9 mm in the DV plane is displacement of the brain under the pressure of the penetrating electrode. When this displacement is corrected for by microelectrode recordings and stimulation data, MRI offers a high degree of accuracy and reliability for thalamic stereotaxy.
10541621	Bilateral iliac vein filter deployment in a patient with megacava.	An 85-year-old-woman presenting with low back pain developed shortness of breath and right-sided chest pain. She was found to have perfusion defects indicative of pulmonary embolus (PE). Heparin was at first employed, but had to be discontinued because of gastrointestinal bleeding. Caval filtration was the obvious course, but it was found on computed tomography (CT) scan that the suprarenal portion of the inferior vena cava was 55 mm in diameter, and the infrarenal portion 44 mm. These measurements were too large for insertion of a Greenfield filter, for which the maximum diameter should be 28 mm. The right common iliac vein was 28 mm in diameter, and the left external iliac vein 25 mm. Two filters were inserted percutaneously in these vessels. The patient was followed for 9 months. No clinical evidence of recurrent PE or venous insufficiency occurred.
10548126	Problems with biotin-labelled virions as probes in poliovirus-specific mu-capture-IgM assays.	BACKGROUND: We have previously developed a mu-capture-based radioimmunoassay (RIA) for detecting virus-specific IgM for the diagnosis of poliomyelitis. To probe captured IgM we used radiolabelled, purified preparations of representatives of each poliovirus serotype (Roivainen M, Agboatwalla M, Stenvik M, Rysa T, Akram DS, Hovi T. J Clin Microbiol 1993;31:2427-32). However, this assay is not directly applicable for wider use because preparation and handling of radioactive reagents is cumbersome and potentially hazardous. OBJECTIVES: To develop a non-radioactive modification of the assay retaining the number of steps and reagents to a minimum. STUDY DESIGN: Replacement of radioactive labelling by in vitro biotinylation of purified virions, and detection of bound virions with horseradish peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin. To study sensitivity and poliovirus serotype-specificity, 129 sera and 115 CSF specimens from children with acute poliomyelitis were used in comparative tests with the in-house RIA. In addition, sera from 40 healthy adults and 11 paired sera from patients with non-polio enterovirus infection were used to assess specificity. RESULTS: While results with the new test on specimens from clinically confirmed polio patients revealed some correlation with those obtained in the in-house RIA, studies on sera from healthy adults indicated, that non-specific binding of biotinylated virions is difficult to control. Moreover, examination of sera from patients with non-polio enterovirus infection suggested frequently occurring cross-reactivity between immune responses induced by polio- and other enterovirus infections. The latter were also seen in the RIA. CONCLUSION: Cross-reactive epitopes between poliovirus serotypes and between polioviruses and other enteroviruses may compromise the use of an assay for virus-specific IgM for poliovirus diagnosis. Biotinylation of the virions seemed to aggravate these problems.
10552311	Applications of a universal thermal index: physiological equivalent temperature.	The physiological equivalent temperature, PET, is a thermal index derived from the human energy balance. It is well suited to the evaluation of the thermal component of different climates. As well as having a detailed physiological basis, PET is preferable to other thermal indexes like the predicted mean vote because of its unit ( degrees C), which makes results more comprehensible to urban or regional planners, for example, who are not so familiar with modern human-biometeorological terminology. PET results can be presented graphically or as bioclimatic maps. Graphs mostly display the temporal behaviour of PET, whereas spatial distribution is specified in bioclimatic maps. In this article, some applications of PET are discussed. They relate to the evaluation of the urban heat island in cities in both temperate climates and warm climates at high altitude. The thermal component of the microclimate in the trunk space of a deciduous forest is also evaluated by PET. As an example of the spatial distribution of PET, a bioclimatic map for Greece in July (Mediterranean climate) is presented.
10555595	Interventional cardiac catheterization advances in nonsurgical approaches to congenital heart disease.	Interventional cardiac catheterization offers increased therapeutic options to many patients with congenital heart disease. Over the past year encouraging results have been reported in hundreds of patients with interatrial communications, patent ductus arteriosus, and pulmonary artery stenosis requiring stenting. The Amplatzer (AGA Medical Corporation, Golden Valley, MN, USA) family of atrial septal, ventricular septal, and ductus occluding devices shows particular promise. Other studies support the efficacy and safety of established procedures such as balloon valvuloplasty and coarctation angioplasty. In some areas, such as transcatheter perforation of atretic pulmonary valves and endovascular stenting for coarctation of the aorta, our technical abilities may be advancing faster than our understanding of the ultimate clinical impact of our treatment. As interventional cardiac catheterization procedures continue to develop, they must be evaluated carefully against alternative treatments.
10580416	Effects of graft-versus-host reaction on intrahepatic islet transplants.	The use of donor-specific bone marrow transplantation might represent a valuable approach for the induction of hyporesponsiveness to concurrent allogeneic organ and tissue grafts. In this setting, the occurrence of subclinical forms of graft-versus-host reaction (GVHR) can seldom be formally ruled out. When systemic administration of donor-specific bone marrow is performed together with intraportal transplantation of islets of Langerhans, GVHR might damage the implanted islets through an innocent bystander mechanism. The liver is, in fact, a prominent target of GVHR, and islets are sensitive to the noxious effects of proinflammatory mediators, including selected cytokines produced during GVHR. A parent (Lewis) to F1 (Lewis x Brown Norway) splenocyte transfer model was used to induce GVHR in rats. Islets were also obtained from Lewis donors and implanted into F1 recipients to examine the effects of GVHR on islet function in the absence of rejection. Selected doses of splenocytes were infused in F1 recipients to induce GVHR. When 150 x 10(6) cells were administered, all recipients developed clinical lethal GVHR. When 100 x 10(6) or 80 x 10(6) cells were given, lethal GVHR was observed in 40 and 20% of the F1 animals, respectively. A transient clinical syndrome occurred in the remaining animals and spontaneously subsided; histological findings consistent with persistent low-grade GVHR were observed in these animals at the time of death several months after splenocyte inoculation. When simultaneous splenocyte infusions and islet grafts were performed in chemically diabetic animals, no adverse effect of either clinical or subclinical GVHR was observed on islet function. Blood glucose profiles were normal, as were intravenous glucose tolerance test profiles. In conclusion, GVHR does not seem to adversely influence function of islets of Langerhans implanted intrahepatically in this parent to F1 experimental model.
10584915	Methadone treatment during pregnancy.	OBJECTIVE: To review the literature on methadone use by pregnant women. DATA SOURCES: A search was conducted on CINAHL, MEDLINE, and PSYCHINFO under &quot;pregnancy&quot; and &quot;methadone.&quot; STUDY SELECTION: Articles published between 1988-1998 were reviewed and chosen based upon relevance to the objective. DATA EXTRACTION: Data were extracted and organized under the following headings: effects of methadone on pregnancy outcome, management of the pregnant woman on methadone, and implications of social and political policies for pregnant women who use opiates. DATA SYNTHESIS: Methadone treatment is most effective for pregnant women who receive care in a comprehensive service center. Few systematic investigations exist concerning methadone maintenance during pregnancy, thus no formal guidelines for management exist. Changes in federal policies for drug treatment and welfare regulations will challenge health care professionals who provide treatment for opiate-dependent pregnant women. CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with methadone is the standard of care for the opiate-using pregnant woman, despite findings challenging its benefits and efficacy in women who continue to use illicit drugs.
10587325	Partial protection against oral challenge with Mycobacterium bovis in ferrets (Mustela furo) following oral vaccination with BCG.	SETTING: Ferrets (Mustela furo) are important wildlife vectors of bovine tuberculosis (TB) in New Zealand. Protective vaccination of ferrets may limit the potential of transmission to livestock. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether orally-delivered Mycobacterium bovis BCG can confer protection against oral challenge with virulent M. bovis. DESIGN: Ten ferrets were vaccinated by feeding measured doses of live BCG, and subsequently challenged with virulent M. bovis via the oral route. Ten non-vaccinated (control) ferrets were similarly challenged. Live body weights and lymphocyte reactivity were monitored longitudinally, and ferrets were killed 20 weeks following challenge. Necropsy, histological examination and bacterial culture of alimentary tract lymphatic tissues were undertaken. RESULTS: There was a significant reduction in the incidence of gross tuberculous lesions among vaccinated ferrets compared to control animals, and fewer vaccinated ferrets had histologically-detectable acid-fast organisms in mesenteric lymph node (LN) tissues. There were significantly fewer vaccinated ferrets with culture-positive retropharyngeal LNs, and the mean bacterial burden was significantly lower for retropharyngeal LNs isolated from vaccinated animals than from controls. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that oral BCG vaccination of ferrets can confer partial protection against M. bovis, and suggest that systemic immune responses may be less important in mediating this degree of protection than local immunity.
10598280	Isolation of the North American strain of viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) associated with epizootic mortality in two new host species of Alaskan marine fish.	Thousands of dead Pacific herring Clupea pallasi, Pacific hake Merluccius productus and walleye pollock Theragra chalcogramma were reported in Lisianski Inlet near Pelican, Alaska, USA, on August 1, 1998. The Pacific hake and pollock continued to die through the end of September. Virological examinations of dead fish identified the North American strain of viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) from all 3 species of fish as well as associated high virus titers and possible histopathological lesions. No other primary fish pathogens were detected and there were no apparent environmental causes for fish mortality. This is the first report of VHSV in 2 new Alaskan fish host species and of a natural epizootic associated with VHSV in which progressive mass mortality was observed simultaneously in herring and 2 other species of free-ranging marine fish.
10599935	Neuropsychometric tests in cross sectional and longitudinal studies - a regression analysis of ADAS - cog, SKT and MMSE.	INTRODUCTION: In clinical and drug studies, different neuropsychometric tests are used. So far, no empirical data have been published to compare studies using different tests. The purpose of this study was to calculate a regression formula allowing a comparison of cross-sectional and longitudinal data from three neuropsychometric tests that are frequently used in drug studies (Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale, ADAS-cog; Syndrom Kurz Test, SKT; Mini Mental State Examination, MMSE). METHOD: 177 patients with dementia according to ICD10 criteria were studied for the cross sectional and 61 for the longitudinal analysis. Correlations and linear regressions were calculated between tests. Significance was proven with ANOVA and t-tests using the SPSS statistical package. RESULTS: Significant Spearman correlations and slopes in the regression occurred in the cross sectional analysis (ADAS-cog-SKT r(s) = 0.77, slope = 0.45, SKT-ADAS-cog slope = 1.3, r2 = 0.59; ADAS-cog-MMSE r2 = 0.76, slope = -0.42, MMSE-ADAS-cog slope = -1.5, r2 = 0.64; MMSE-SKT r(s) = -0.79, slope = -0.87, SKT-MMSE slope = -0.71, r2 = 0.62; p&lt;0.001 after Bonferroni correction; N = 177) and in the longitudinal analysis (SKT-ADAS-cog, r(s) = 0.48, slope = 0.69, ADAS-cog-SKT slope = 0.69, p&lt;0.001, r2 = 0.32, MMSE-SKT, r(s) = 0.44, slope = -0.41, SKT-MMSE, slope = -0.55, p&lt;0.001, r2 = 0.21). CONCLUSIONS: The results allow calculation of ADAS-scores when SKT scores are given, and vice versa. In longitudinal studies or in the course of the disease, scores assessed with the ADAS-cog and the SKT may now be statistically compared. In all comparisons, bottom and ceiling effects of the tests have to be taken into account.
10603770	Nurses' use of patient notes to chart bowel care management for the palliative care patient.	Little is known about nurses' knowledge base and practice in the provision of Bowel Care Management (BCM). Recently, a study designed to investigate both factors was conducted in two hospices, one in New South Wales and the other in South Australia. Twenty-four nurses and 100 palliative care patients participated in the study. The audit of patients' medical records, one of several research methods used in the study, will be discussed here. The research identified that in all but two cases, patients' information about their BCM practices used in the home environment was not documented on their admission to the hospice. Further, the considerable number of charts used in each hospice to record BCM generally asked for information related to bowel function and the use of pharmaceutical preparations, to the exclusion of other methods of management.
10604132	Cytoreductive surgery in advanced endocrine tumours of the pancreas.	Surgery still plays an important role even in advanced endocrine tumours of the pancreas, owing to their biological behaviour. Sometimes it is possible to attempt a radical approach, but more often only cytoreduction is feasible. In fact, when the malignancy is not completely resectable on account of vessel involvement or extensive liver metastases, surgical reduction of the tumour burden (debulking) can be proposed, aimed at improving the clinical conditions and survival of these patients. Forty-one patients suffering from advanced endocrine tumour of the pancreas were observed from 1985 to 1996. In 13 patients, the disease was locally advanced as far as concerns lymph node metastases and/or vessel involvement, while the other 28 patients presented liver metastases. In the former group, we performed 6 radical resections, in the latter we submitted 2 patients to radical resection and 12 patients to cytoreductive surgery, with complete removal of the pancreatic malignancy. The overall survival of the resected patients was 87% (7/8). Three patients (37.5%) are alive and free of disease, while the other 4 have subsequently developed liver metastases. One patient died with hepatic recurrence. Half the patients (6/12) undergoing cytoreductive surgery are alive, 3 with stable and 3 with progressive disease. The other 6 patients have died due to liver progression of the disease. As data in the literature concerning the role of debulking as regards the survival are conflicting, we have modified our surgical approach in patients with advanced disease. We perform cytoreductive surgery whenever complete removal of the pancreatic tumour is feasible. The rationale of this approach is to leave only a liver with residual disease, with a view to giving targeted adjuvant treatment.
10613178	Correlation of radiographic measurements with biomechanical test results.	The refracture of bone after the removal of an internal fixation device is not common, but it can be a serious complication. The development of a simple radiographic tool to determine the condition of a healing bone would be of clinical importance. As a basis to developing this tool, it was important to determine whether a correlation exists between radiographic results and the stiffness index of bones during fracture healing. This experimental investigation in beagles showed that at 24 weeks after a unilateral femoral osteotomy, plain radiographs could be used to determine the stiffness index of healing bone. The results showed the cortex to callus ratio (the thickness of the cortex, including the periosteal callus, normalized by the thickness of the cortex of the bone not surgically treated) correlated positively with the stiffness index of the bones. This measurement might be useful in the clinical assessment of fracture healing. From a clinical point of view, caution is recommended after the removal of fracture plates when the cortex to callus ratio is low because such a low ratio may be associated with a low stiffness index of the healing bone. This information allows clinicians to adapt the postoperative regimen accordingly.
10619204	The efficacy of psychosocial approaches to behaviour disorders in dementia: a systematic literature review.	OBJECTIVE: This paper provides a systematic review of research findings published between 1989 and 1998 concerning non-pharmacological strategies to alleviate behavioural disturbances in elderly persons with dementia. METHOD: Data collection strategies included computer literature searches, manual searches of selected journals and checks of references listed in previous reviews. To warrant inclusion, studies were required to include some measure of behaviour before and after the introduction of an intervention. Papers were appraised in the following domains: design, sampling technique, setting, behaviours studied, measurement tools, data collection methods, type of interventions and feasibility. An overall validity rating was assigned to each article using predetermined rules. RESULTS: Forty-three studies met criteria for inclusion including five randomised controlled trials. Validity ratings were as follows: one strong, 15 moderate, and 27 weak. Areas of scientific weakness included small numbers of subjects, inadequate descriptions of study participants, imprecise data collection methods, high attrition rates and insufficient statistical analysis. Despite this, there is evidence to support the efficacy of activity programs, music, behaviour therapy, light therapy, carer education and changes to the physical environment. The evidence in favour of multidisciplinary teams, massage and aromatherapy is inconclusive. CONCLUSIONS: It was easier to interpret the results of rigorously designed studies that focused on a single behaviour or single intervention tailored to the needs of individuals and carers. Future studies should seek to replicate the findings outlined here, improving methodologies where necessary and including outcome measures that encompass the interests of people with dementia, family caregivers and health professionals.
10620572	Ratio of free or complexed prostate-specific antigen (PSA) to total PSA: which ratio improves differentiation between benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer?	BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic utility of a new assay that measures all forms of prostate-specific antigen complexed (cPSA) to serum proteins except alpha(2)-macroglobulin with the assay of free PSA (fPSA) and the corresponding ratios to total PSA (tPSA) to improve the differentiation between benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostate cancer (PCa). METHODS: Serum samples were collected from 91 men without prostate disease and with normal digital rectal examination (controls), 144 untreated patients with PCa, and 89 patients with BPH. tPSA and cPSA were measured using the Bayer Immuno 1 system; fPSA and the additional tPSA were measured with the Roche Elecsys system. RESULTS: The median cPSA/tPSA, fPSA/tPSA, and fPSA/cPSA ratios were significantly different between patients with BPH and PCa (78.7% vs 90.7%, 25.5% vs 12.1%, and 36.8% vs 14.3%, respectively; P &lt;0.001). No correlations of cPSA and its ratios to tumor stage and grade were found. ROC analysis showed that cPSA was not different from tPSA (areas under the curve, 0.632 vs 0.568), whereas the cPSA/tPSA ratio was similar to the fPSA/tPSA ratio in increasing discrimination between BPH and PCa patients with tPSA concentrations in the tPSA gray zone between 2 and 10 microg/L (areas under the curve, 0.851 vs 0.838). CONCLUSIONS: Compared with tPSA, the fPSA/tPSA and cPSA/tPSA ratios both improve the differentiation between BPH and PCa comparably and are similarly effective in reducing the rate of unnecessary biopsies, whereas cPSA alone does not have any effect.
10629896	[Supratentorial ectopic ependymoma: a case report]	Ependymomas usually arise from the ventricular surface and approximately two-thirds of them are infratentorial. We present an unusual case of supratentorial ependymoma located in the parietal parenchyma and exhibiting no continuity with the ventricular system. On March 30, 1998, a 63-year-old woman was admitted to our neurosurgical service because of a sudden consciousness loss attack two weeks before. On admission, neurological examination revealed no abnormal findings. Computerized tomography (CT) revealed a mass lesion of the parietal lobe which was enhanced homogeneously. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) also showed the mass of the parietal lobe which was iso-intense on T1-weighted images, iso and high intense on T2-weighted images and homogeneously enhanced by administration of Gd-DTPA. In the angiography, left carotid angiograms showed a tumor stain. On February 26, 1998, total removal of the tumor was performed using stereotactic craniotomy with neuronavigator and intraoperative echography. After surgery, focal radiation therapy (56Gy) was carried out. The pathological diagnosis was cellular ependymoma with partial clear cell components. Several kinds of tumor may occur in the cerebral parenchyma. We conclude, however, that ependymoma has to be included in the differential diagnosis when the tumor location is distant from the ventricles.
10634243	Pallidotomy and quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease: an early study.	The purpose of this study was to analyze the effect of stereotactic neurophysiologically guided pallidotomy on health-related quality of life (QoL) of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Eleven patients with PD (seven men, four women; mean age, 57.2 years; mean duration of disease, 14 years) with motor complications refractory to medical therapy underwent unilateral pallidotomy. Clinical assessment was carried out a week before surgery and 4 months after the surgical procedure and was based on the Core Assessment Program for Intracerebral Transplantations protocol. QoL was measured by means of the PDQ-39. A set of rating scales (Hoehn &amp; Yahr, Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, Schwab and England, Northwestern University Disability Scale of Walking, Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale), timed tests, and self-evaluations of motor function and mood were applied. Improvement was found in dyskinesias (74%) and off-period disability (42%). Cardinal motor signs improved significantly (30%-59%). Four dimensions of the PDQ-39 (Mobility, ADL, Emotions, Bodily Pain) showed a significant improvement (p &lt;0.01-0.001). The global effect on QoL, measured through the PDQ-39 Summary Index (35.3%; 95% confidence interval: 15.60-54.97), was also significant (p&lt;0.01) but unrelated to major clinical changes. Pallidotomy significantly improves QoL in patients with advanced PD. QoL measurement provides relevant information that is probably not attainable by clinical assessment.
10636300	Effects of ovariectomy, 192 IgG-saporin-induced cortical cholinergic deafferentation, and administration of estradiol on sustained attention performance in rats.	Female ovariectomized (OVX) and sham-OVX rats were trained in a task designed to assess sustained attention. After achieving asymptotic performance, OVX rats did not exhibit the impairment in performance over blocks of trials (i.e., the vigilance decrement) observed in sham-OVX rats. Furthermore, OVX rats' performance over blocks of trials was unaffected by the normally detrimental effects of a visual distractor. 192 IgG-saporin-induced lesions of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons resulted in similar impairments in the performance of OVX and sham-OVX rats. The acute, but not chronic, administration of 17beta-estradiol attenuated the lesion-induced decrease in the relative number of hits to longest signals exclusively in rats with intact ovaries. These findings indicate that the variables contributing to the potential therapeutic effects of estradiol remain poorly understood.
10636447	Association of pre-eclampsia with common coding sequence variations in the lipoprotein lipase gene.	Marked dyslipidemia may contribute to endothelial cell dysfunction in pre-eclampsia. Carriers of N291S or D9N missense mutations in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene exhibit reductions in LPL activity and are predisposed to dyslipidemia and cardiovascular disease. In Caucasians, the D9N variant is in strong linkage disequilibrium with the - 93T --> G promoter variant. A fourth LPL variant, S447X, is often associated with a beneficial lipid profile. We asked if the N291S and the combination D9N/- 93T --> G variants are more prevalent, and if the S447X variant is less prevalent, in Caucasian women with pre-eclampsia as compared with normal pregnancies. DNA amplification was followed by an allele-specific oligonucleotide ligation assay. Allele frequencies were analyzed with a chi2 table and Yates' correction. The N291S variant was identified in 11.1% of pre-eclamptics as compared with 2.9% of pregnancy controls (p = 0.008). All carriers of D9N were also carriers of - 93T --> G. The D9N/ - 93T --> G combined variant was found in 7.1% of pre-eclamptics as compared with 1.4% of pregnancy controls (p = 0.02). No individuals were carriers of both N291S and D9N/ - 93T --> G. Thus, 18.2% of pre-eclamptics had either of these LPL mutations compared with 4.3% of pregnancy controls (and 4.4% of population controls). The frequency of the S447X variant did not differ among groups. We conclude that carriers of N291S or combined D9N/ - 93T --> G mutations in the LPL gene are at substantially increased risk of pre-eclampsia.
10641960	Virtual congresses.	A new form of scientific medical meeting has emerged in the last few years--the virtual congress. This article describes the general role of computer technologies and the Internet in the development of this new means of scientific communication, by reviewing the history of &quot;cyber sessions&quot; in medical education and the rationale, methods, and initial results of the First Virtual Congress of Cardiology. Instructions on how to participate in this virtual congress, either actively or as an observer, are included. Current advantages and disadvantages of virtual congresses, their impact on the scientific community at large, and future developments and possibilities in this area are discussed.
10643910	Gastrointestinal manifestations of acute falciparum malaria in children.	The gastrointestinal manifestations of acute symptomatic uncomplicated falciparum malaria were studied in 184 consecutive children aged from 6 months to 15 years. Vomiting was the most common and epigastralgia the least common presenting symptom. Peripheral parasite density was higher in children who were vomiting than in those who were not. There was no relationship between the density of peripheral parasitaemia and the duration of gastrointestinal symptoms at presentation. All gastrointestinal symptoms cleared within 3 days after instituting antimalarial therapy.
10644489	Relationships between T lymphocyte apoptosis and anergy following trauma.	BACKGROUND: Severely injured trauma patients experience T cell depletion. A subset of these patients also develop T cell unresponsiveness (anergy), as characterized by the failure of their T cells to proliferate or to produce T lymphokines in response to a direct stimulus through the T cell receptor. We hypothesized that T cell apoptosis plays a role in the development of posttrauma T cell depletion and/or T cell anergy by deleting an activated T cell population. We found that moderately increased T cell depletion posttrauma is not innately deleterious or immediately responsible for anergy, but may predispose to later development of T cell anergy, possibly due to a more stringent requirement for activation of the remaining naive T cells. METHODS: A total of 30 blunt trauma and burn patients were assessed twice weekly for the following parameters: (1) clinical outcome expressed as severity of organ dysfunction as measured by the multiple organ dysfunction syndrome score, (2) proliferative response of highly purified T cells to anti-CD3/anti-CD4, (3) level of apoptosis as determined by flow cytometric analysis of propidium iodide-stained monocyte reduced peripheral blood mononuclear cells, either unstimulated or in response to mitogenic challenge or Fas (CD95) stimulation. RESULTS: A wide range of apoptosis levels are seen in the patients' T cells. Apoptosis is increased when all trauma patients' T cells are compared to T cells of normal volunteers. However, at the time a patients' T cells are anergic, there is no increased level of apoptosis. In fact, the point of maximum anergy (lowest proliferative response) correlates to diminished apoptotic response. Increased T cell apoptosis can be stimulated by anti-Fas antibody in trauma patients' responsive T cells but not in maximally anergic T cells. These data suggest that patients' T cell anergy is not an immediate result of apoptotic T cell depletion upon stimulation. However, patients who later develop T cell anergy have increased T cell apoptosis earlier in their clinical course than patients who never experience T cell anergy. CONCLUSIONS: Increased levels of apoptosis are not directly associated with negative trauma patient outcome nor the immediate cause of T cell anergy. However, unusually high levels of apoptosis and development of severe T cell depletion occurring before complete activation and expansion of the posttrauma T cell response may presage anergy and subsequent organ failure.
10647726	A new concept for the correction of astigmatism: full-arc, depth-dependent astigmatic keratotomy.	OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to introduce and evaluate a new concept in astigmatic keratotomy (AK) named full-arc, depth-dependent AK (FDAK). DESIGN: Noncomparative interventional case series. PARTICIPANTS: FDAK was performed on a total of 37 eyes with regular astigmatism; of these, 16 eyes received FDAK alone, and 21 eyes received FDAK combined with cataract surgery. METHODS: Corneal topography was used to divide the cornea into two discreet regions of &quot;steep&quot; and &quot;flat.&quot; Then, paired arcuate incisions, 90 degrees in length, were placed along the full arc of the steep area. The level of astigmatic correction was controlled by varying the incision depth from 40% to 80% on the basis of a provisional nomogram developed by the authors. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Keratometries, corneal topographies, and visual acuities were measured. RESULTS: The FDAK alone group showed a significant improvement from a preoperative corneal astigmatism of 2.90 +/- 0.78 diopters (D) to a postoperative value of 0.89 +/- 0.52 D. The &quot;combined&quot; group also showed significant improvement from a preoperative corneal astigmatism of 2.97 +/- 1.01 D, to a postoperative value of 1.02 +/- 0.45 D. The deviation of achieved correction from attempted correction using vector analysis was between 1.37 D of undercorrection and 0.98 D of overcorrection, with 91.9% of cases within the range of +/- 1.0 D. Slight oblique change caused by axis deviation was observed in seven cases. Both uncorrected and corrected visual acuity showed statistically significant improvement. No serious complications were encountered. CONCLUSIONS: Controlling the level of correction by varying the incision depth allowed the surgeon to use long incisions (90 degrees in length in regular astigmatism) covering the entire steep area, minimizing the undesirable changes induced by conventional deep and narrow incision AK and resulting in an ideal corneal sphericity after surgery. FDAK enabled the surgeon to accurately control the level of astigmatic correction with minimal risk of corneal perforation.
10658714	Helical CT of skeletal muscle metastases from primary carcinomas.	OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical and helical CT findings in patients with skeletal muscle metastases from carcinoma, we reviewed the cases of 15 consecutive patients who had muscle metastases diagnosed by contrast-enhanced helical CT. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between February 1992 and August 1997, 15 patients (30 lesions) had metastatic disease to muscle from primary carcinoma diagnosed by helical CT in our institution. Patient data and imaging findings were retrospectively reviewed. RESULTS: Ten of 15 patients (67%) were known to have a malignancy at the time of CT. Patients complained of pain at the site of skeletal muscle metastases in five (17%) of 30 lesions, and in 11 (37%) of 30 lesions a mass was palpable. Lesion size averaged 3.2 cm (range, 0.7-7.8 cm). Thirteen of 15 patients had metastatic disease elsewhere at the time of skeletal muscle metastasis diagnosis. Muscles and other structures most commonly involved by metastatic disease included erector spinae (n = 9), psoas (n = 4), rotator cuff (n = 4), gluteal (n = 3), and abdominal (n = 3). The most common appearance of metastatic disease to muscle on contrast-enhanced helical CT was that of a rim-enhancing mass with central hypoattenuation in 25 (83%) of 30 lesions. CONCLUSION: Metastatic disease to skeletal muscle tends to be found in people with advanced-stage neoplasms. It may be an incidental finding on CT because pain is an uncommon feature; a minority of lesions were palpable in our series. The most common appearance on contrast-enhanced helical CT is a rim-enhancing intramuscular lesion with central hypoattenuation.
10677002	High-performance thin-layer chromatography method for inositol phosphate analysis.	A simple and inexpensive high-performance thin-layer chromatography (HPTLC) method for the analysis of inositol mono- to hexakisphosphates on cellulose precoated plates is described. Plates were developed in 1-propanol-25% ammonia solution-water (5:4:1) and substance quantities as low as 100-200 pmol were detected by molybdate staining. Chromatographic mobilities of nucleotides and phosphorylated carbohydrates were also characterized. Charcoal treatment was employed to separate nucleotides from inositol phosphates with similar R(F) values prior to HPTLC analysis. Practical application of the HPTLC system is demonstrated by analysis of grain extracts from wild type and low-phytate mutant barley as well as phytate degradation products resulting from barley phytase activity.
10686018	The NS5a gene of hepatitis C virus in patients treated with interferon-alpha.	Patients infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 3 have a better response to interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) therapy than those infected with genotype 1. There are extensive sequence differences between genotypes in the 3' half of the NS5a gene. An association between IFN-alpha response and the interferon sensitivity-determining region (ISDR) (amino acids 2209-2248) of HCV genotype 1b has been described [Enomoto et al. (1996) New England Journal of Medicine 334:771-776]. A prospective study was conducted to determine whether the derived NS5A amino acid sequence or quasi-species diversity could predict response to IFN-alpha therapy. Serum samples were obtained before, during, and after treatment from 35 IFN-alpha-treated patients chronically infected with HCV (eight with type1b,13 with type1a, and 14 with type3a). Nucleotide sequences were determined, and amino acid sequences corresponding to residues 2178-2390 of the polyprotein were derived. Quasi-species complexity was analysed by amplification of the ISDR region (2270-2403), followed by single-stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP). No amino acid sequence that could be used to predict response to treatment was found, and there was no selection of specific amino acid residues during treatment. A striking lack of variability was seen in HCV genotype 3a, but the small degree of variation could suggest an effect on response. SSCP showed that variation in the predominant NS5a sequence occurred in the presence and absence of therapeutically administered IFN-alpha. HCV quasi-species diversity pretreatment did not predict IFN-alpha treatment outcome. The conclusion of the study is that the amino acid sequence of NS5a cannot be used to predict the efficacy of treatment with IFN-alpha in HCV-infected patients in Scotland. No evidence was found to support the selection of IFN-alpha-resistant strains in the NS5a gene.
10687750	Improvement of subjective work performance among obstructive sleep apnea patients after treatment with continuous positive airway pressure.	Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is a significant problem for some patients presenting with snoring and excessive daytime sleepiness. The 'golden standard' therapy in OSAS is considered to be nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). The effects of CPAP on work performance in sleep apnoics has not been studied previously. One hundred and fifty-two patients with OSAS participated in an open label study. The patients were diagnosed as suffering from severe OSAS after they underwent overnight polysomnography showing that their apnea indexes were at least 20. The participants answered four questions concerning self-perceived work performance prior to and after using CPAP during 6 months. There were highly statistically significant decreases (P &lt; 0.000001) in work performance difficulties as graded by the patient. The results of this study indicate that CPAP treatment improves subjective work performance in patients suffering from OSAS.
10698790	Propachlor removal by Pseudomonas strain GCH1 in an immobilized-cell system.	A bacterial strain capable of growing on propachlor (2-chloro-N-isopropylacetanilide) was isolated from soil by using enrichment and isolation techniques. The strain isolated, designated GCH1, was classified as a member of the genus Pseudomonas. Washed-cell suspensions of strain GCH1 accumulated N-isopropylacetanilide, acetanilide, acetamide, and catechol. Pseudomonas strain GCH1 grew on propachlor with a generation time of 4.2 h and a rate of substrate utilization of 1.75 +/- 0.15 micromol h(-1). Gene expression did not require induction but was subject to catabolite expression. Acetanilide was a growth substrate with a yield of 0.56 +/- 0.02 mg of protein micromol(-1). GCH1 strain cells were immobilized by adsorption onto a ceramic support and were used as biocatalysts in an immobilized cell system. Propachlor elimination reached 98%, with a retention time of 3 h and an initial organic load of 0.5 mM propachlor. The viability of immobilized cells increased 34-fold after 120 days of bioreactor operation.
10707947	A clinical, microbiological and economic analysis of a national service for the rapid molecular diagnosis of tuberculosis and rifampicin resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis.	A clinical, microbiological and economic study of a national rapid molecular service for the identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and the determination of rifampicin resistance in smear-positive sputum samples (and other primary specimens) was performed. Ninety-one primary specimens, of which 55 were smear-positive sputum, were examined by molecular and conventional assays. Concordance of molecular results from smear-positive sputum specimens with tuberculosis diagnosis and rifampicin resistance by conventional analysis was 52 (94.5%) of 55 and 44 (91.7%) of 48, respectively. Concordance of molecular analysis on all primary specimens was 81 (89.0%) of 91 (diagnosis) and 55 (90.2%) of 61 (rifampicin resistance). Approximately 28 days were saved in the time to diagnosis by using the molecular assay. Hospitals can reduce the cost of inappropriate isolation of patients with risk factors for multiple drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDRTB) who subsequently are shown to have drug-sensitive tuberculosis. At one hospital potential annual savings were between pound sterling 50000 and pound sterling 150000. Of the nine MDRTB cases identified, all had a previous diagnosis of tuberculosis, 78% were born overseas, 44% were known to be non-compliant with therapy, but only one case (12.5%) was HIV positive. HIV status was not significantly different between MDRTB and drug-sensitive tuberculosis cases. Over 75% of specimens were taken while the patient was on therapy. Isolates from >50% of the MDRTB cases were resistant to three or more drugs and one was resistant to seven drugs. All patients were placed on additional therapy once the molecular result was known; this was subsequently modified based on the results of in-vitro drug susceptibility testing. All survived at least 6 months of follow-up. There was no difference in the proportion of successful cultures from smear-positive samples from patients with drug-sensitive tuberculosis or MDRTB who were on therapy. Molecular rifampicin resistance assays are reliable for diagnosis in cases with smear-positive disease.
10722206	Zulu medicinal plants with antibacterial activity.	Aqueous, methanolic and ethyl acetate extracts of 14 plants used in traditional Zulu medicine for treatment of ailments of an infectious nature were screened for antibacterial activity. Most of the activity detected was against gram-positive bacteria. Tuber bark extracts of Dioscorea sylvatica had activity against gram-negative Escherichia coli and extracts of Dioscorea dregeana, Cheilanthes viridis and Vernonia colorata were active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The highest antibacterial activity was found in extracts of C. viridis, D. dregeana, D. silvatica, Melianthus comosus and V. colorata. In general, methanolic extracts exhibited higher activity than aqueous and ethyl acetate extracts.
10750897	Gravity independence of seed-to-seed cycling in Brassica rapa.	Growth of higher plants in the microgravity environment of orbital platforms has been problematic. Plants typically developed more slowly in space and often failed at the reproductive phase. Short-duration experiments on the Space Shuttle showed that early stages in the reproductive process could occur normally in microgravity, so we sought a long-duration opportunity to test gravity's role throughout the complete life cycle. During a 122-d opportunity on the Mir space station, full life cycles were completed in microgravity with Brassica rapa L. in a series of three experiments in the Svet greenhouse. Plant material was preserved in space by chemical fixation, freezing, and drying, and then compared to material preserved in the same way during a high-fidelity ground control. At sampling times 13 d after planting, plants on Mir were the same size and had the same number of flower buds as ground control plants. Following hand-pollination of the flowers by the astronaut, siliques formed. In microgravity, siliques ripened basipetally and contained smaller seeds with less than 20% of the cotyledon cells found in the seeds harvested from the ground control. Cytochemical localization of storage reserves in the mature embryos showed that starch was retained in the spaceflight material, whereas protein and lipid were the primary storage reserves in the ground control seeds. While these successful seed-to-seed cycles show that gravity is not absolutely required for any step in the plant life cycle, seed quality in Brassica is compromised by development in microgravity.
10764171	Patient-controlled intranasal analgesia: effective alternative to intravenous PCA for postoperative pain relief.	PURPOSE: To investigate whether the nasal route for fentanyl administration in patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) provides as effective postoperative analgesia as intravenous PCA. METHODS: Patient-controlled intranasal or intravenous analgesia with fentanyl was investigated in 48 patients (ASA I-III) on the day of surgery (orthopedic, abdominal or thyroid) in a prospective, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy study. Fentanyl was given in a bolus of 25 microg for intranasal and 17.5 microg for i.v. PCA, lockout interval six minutes. The first requested dose was doubled in both groups. Pain intensity (101-point numerical rating scale) and vital parameters were observed at 11 measurement points during the 240 min study. Patients were asked for side effects at every measurement point and for their satisfaction at the end of the study by the same investigator (J.M.). RESULTS: Onset of analgesia, the first reduction in pain intensity on the numerical rating scale, was 21 +/- 11 min (range 15-45 min) in intranasal and 22 +/- 16 min (range 15-90 min) in i.v. PCA. Pain intensity was reduced from 55 +/- 11 to 11 +/- 10 in the intranasal group and from 53 +/- 8 to 11 +/- 6 in the i.v. PCA group. Vital parameters remained stable and side effects were comparable in both groups. The judgement &quot;excellent&quot; or &quot;good&quot; was given by 21 of 23 patients treated intranasally and 24 of 25 patients treated intravenously. CONCLUSION: Intranasal PCA with fentanyl was an effective alternative to i.v. PCA in postoperative patients.
10768611	Sternal osteomyelitis caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis: case report and review of the literature.	Sternal osteomyelitis caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis is rare; since the advent of modern antituberculous therapy, a limited number of detailed cases have been reported. Most patients were relatively young, free of underlying disease, and lived in a country in which tuberculosis is endemic. The disease presented indolently with sternal pain and swelling. Extrasternal disease is detectable in less than half. Diagnosis was based on histologic examination of infected tissues and mycobacterial cultures. Most patients recovered after surgical debridement and combination drug therapy. Tuberculous sternal osteomyelitis should be considered in patients with sternal pain and swelling.
10781989	Hydatid cyst of the pancreas.	A rare case of hydatid cyst of the pancreas is reported. Although ultrasonography and computerised tomography scan confirmed the presence of a cystic mass in the body and tail of the pancreas, diagnosis was made only on laparotomy. A distal pancreatectomy was done and the diagnosis of hydatid cyst of the pancreas was confirmed by histopathology. Though very rare, pancreatic hydatidosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cystic lesions of the pancreas in the appropriate epidemiological setting.
10795254	When a student commits suicide. A protocol for colleges of nursing.	Nursing faculty are rarely prepared for the suicide of a student. The authors discuss a protocol to be implemented when such an event occurs. It highlights the needs of faculty, fellow students, and significant others during this difficult period and guides the reader through the process of informing the faculty and students about the suicide, conducting support meetings, and managing the media. The protocol helps schools prevent disorganization and unnecessary legal jeopardy associated with such a crisis.
10801376	Relationship between intrathecal oxygen tension and ultrastructural changes in the spinal cord during experimental aortic clamping.	OBJECTIVES: To investigate spinal cord ultrastructure related to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) oxygenation. DESIGN: experimental aortic occlusion model with intrathecal oxygen tension monitoring. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two groups of pigs underwent proximal (P) or double (D) aortic occlusion for 30 min followed by 1 h of reperfusion. In a third group (I) segmental arteries distal to T3 were clamped for 90 min. A thin pO(2), pCO(2) and pH sensor was placed intrathecally for continuous monitoring of CSF. Spinal cord segments were studied by electron microscopy (EM). RESULTS: In group P, CSF-pO(2)rapidly decreased during clamping and major changes in pH and pCO(2)were seen. EM demonstrated neuronal degeneration with loss of cellular integrity and severe affection of organelles. In the group D, CSF oxygenation decreased to about half, but with only moderate changes in the metabolic parameters. Group I showed no significant changes in CSF measurements. The latter groups were similar at EM, showing only mild mitochondrial changes. CONCLUSIONS: The level of CSF oxygenation during aortic cross-clamping or segmental artery interruption seems to correlate with ultrastructural changes in the spinal cord. This online intrathecal monitoring technique may provide valuable information on spinal cord circulation during thoracoabdominal aortic surgery.
10817387	Fatal basilar artery thrombosis after traumatic cervical facet dislocation. Case report.	The authors detail a rare case of basilar artery thrombosis in a patient with traumatic cervical spine facet dislocation. Although the patient's deficits could initially be explained by the spinal injury, deterioration to a &quot;locked-in-state&quot; could not. In addition to vertebral artery injuries, the basilar artery can also be indirectly involved in cases of cervical spine trauma. In the rare viable patient, immediate reduction of cervical spine dislocation may allow endovascular thrombolysis, if not otherwise contraindicated.
10831048	Seasonal and site specific variation in the component community structure of intestinal helminths in Apodemus sylvaticus from three contrasting habitats in south-east England.	Seasonal fluctuations in the prevalence and abundance of infection with intestinal helminths were studied in Apodemus sylvaticus (wood mouse, n = 399), from three contrasting habitats in southern England, to test the hypothesis that both intrinsic (host sex, age) and extrinsic (season, site) factors influence parasite species richness and abundance. Five species of helminths were recovered but only one of these (Capillaria murissylvatici) was site-specific (Dungeness). Total species richness was therefore 5 at Dungeness and 4 at the other two sites. Mean species richness was 1.4, but in adult mice there was a pronounced difference between the sites, and an independent highly significant effect of season. Syphacia stroma and Corrigia vitta both showed marked differences between sites in respect of prevalence and abundance of infection. Capillaria murissylvatici was encountered at Dungeness mostly in the spring whereas seasonal changes in abundance of S. stroma were consistent across all three sites. Seasonal fluctuations in the abundance of Catenotaenia pusilla were compounded by differences between sites. Host sex was not a significant factor in any species, although a posteriori analysis of S. stroma worm burdens for the Isle of Wight site revealed a moderate local sex effect. Overall the principal determinants of variation in helminth burdens were the extrinsic factors, site and season.
10864150	Photodegradation of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans in aqueous solutions and in organic solvents.	Aqueous solutions of selected polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) were prepared using a generator column and exposed to UV (300 nm) light in the laboratory and to sunlight in an outdoor environment. In the laboratory, additional exposures were also carried out using 60% acetonitrile/water solutions. At 300 nm di- and tetra PCDDs had higher first-order photodegradation rate constants in 60% acetonitrile/water than in pure water. The solvent effect was reversed for PCDFs. These results may be a reflection of the higher polarity of PCDFs compared to PCDDs. In both the indoor and outdoor exposures photodegradation rates decreased with increasing concentrations of chlorination. However, OCDF exposed to 300 nm light in 60% acetonitrile/water and to sunlight in pure water photodegraded more rapidly than tetra CDF. Photolysis rates in sunlight were considerably slower (t(1/2) of 6.4-23 h) than photolysis rates at 300 nm in the laboratory (t(1/2) of 4.3-680 min), reflecting the lower intensity of sunlight in the 300 nm region of the UV/Vis spectrum. The extent of dechlorination of the PCDDs/PCDFs was less than 20% and reductive dechlorination does not appear to be a major process in the photodegradation of PCDDs/PCDFs in aqueous solutions.
10866891	Bupivacaine suppresses [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes with increased extracellular K+ and is reversed with increased extracellular Mg(2+).	Lidocaine is used to treat cardiac arrhythmias, whereas bupivacaine is noted for its cardiotoxicity. A precise mechanism for these differences is unclear, and there is no well defined antidote for local anesthetic cardiotoxicity. Our study compares the effect of lidocaine and bupivacaine on oscillations of intracellular Ca(2+) coupled with contractions in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes by using digital imaging. In medium containing 5.6 mM K(+), both 42 microM lidocaine and 5.5 microM bupivacaine significantly reduced the oscillation rate. The oscillatory patterns were highly irregular, and the rates were increased in the presence of bupivacaine in 7.6 mM K(+) medium, eventually degenerating into a loss of oscillations after several minutes of bupivacaine exposure. Irregular oscillations did not occur with lidocaine until the K(+) concentration was increased to 10 mM. Increasing the Mg(2+) and Ca(2+) concentrations by 2 mM each recovered oscillation that had been suppressed by bupivacaine in high K(+) buffer. Evaluation of intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations in neonatal rat suggests that increased extracellular K(+) may be an important component of bupivacaine cardiotoxicity. IMPLICATIONS: Evaluation of intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations in neonatal rat myocytes suggests that increased extracellular K(+) may be an important component of bupivacaine cardiotoxicity.
10891733	[Large sections in routine breast pathology. A technique adapted to conservative surgery]	Large block macrosectioning of segmental excision specimens for breast cancer, and especially ductal carcinoma in situ, provides detailed information regarding size of the lesions, extent of spread and margin status which are essential for local recurrence risk assessment. However, the expansion of this technique has been curbed due to its reputation of being technically difficult, time-consuming, costly and providing slides of poor quality. We assessed the feasibility of the large section technique and adapted it to the everyday practice of a routine pathology laboratory. The time spent cutting a large block on a motorized microtome is half the time spent cutting the great number of conventional blocks needed to assess the same amount of tissue. Finally, 4 mm-thick stained large preparations of high quality are produced within 3 days after receiving the specimen. Analysis and report are both more precise and easier since the pathologist is saved the trouble of having to mentally re-assemble a great quantity of numbered small blocks. 805 primary monobloc segmental excision specimens have been examined in this way over the last 50 months period and we advocate its use as a standard procedure for breast-conserving surgery specimen management.
10892262	Simulation evaluation of cardiac assist devices.	During past decades, various cardiac assist devices were invented. These cardiac assist devices can be classified into two categories: parallel connected or sequentially connected to the natural heart. In the past, more attention was paid to the assistance of the device provided to the failing heart and most research was conducted towards that goal. While less attention was paid to the &quot;dose&quot; of the assistance for rehabilitation of the natural heart. In our study, the hemodynamic effects of parallel as well as sequential cardiac assist devices are investigated in terms of the working load to the natural heart, and the oxygen supply and consumption of the natural heart. Preliminary results show that the sequential assistance could reduce the working load of the natural heart as well as increase the coronary flow. The results also indicate that the control scheme of the cardiac assist device has effect on the oxygen supply and consumption of the natural heart. There is optimal &quot;dose&quot; of assistance for the rehabilitation of the natural heart.
10897871	[Gastroesophageal reflux and Helicobacter pylori]	The relationship between Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is not well known yet, and has some controversial issues. There is indirect epidemiological evident, not yet proven, that H. pylori may have a protective role against GERD. Hypochlorhydria caused by gastritis located mainly at corpus would be the principal physiopathological protector mechanism against GERD. Even knowing that more studies are needed, the risk of developing GERD after the H. pylori eradication seems to be increased in some groups of patients. In the presence of the microorganism, the efficacy of acid suppression therapy may decrease, and its long-term use could favour the progression to corpus atrophic gastritis. Specialized intestinal metaplasia in an endoscopically normal-appearing cardia may precede adenocarcinoma, and its prevention would vary, depending on its controversial origin, secondary to carditis, H. pylori or GERD.
10898733	Cellular energetics analysis by a mathematical model of energy balance: estimation of parameters in human skeletal muscle.	Cellular energy balance requires that the physiological demands by ATP-utilizing functions be matched by ATP synthesis to sustain muscle activity. We devised a new method of analysis of these processes in data from single individuals. Our approach is based on the logic of current information on the major mechanisms involved in this energy balance and can quantify not directly measurable parameters that govern those mechanisms. We use a mathematical model that simulates by ordinary, nonlinear differential equations three components of cellular bioenergetics (cellular ATP flux, mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, and creatine kinase kinetics). We incorporate data under resting conditions, during the transition toward a steady state of stimulation and during the transition during recovery back to the original resting state. Making use of prior information about the kinetic parameters, we fitted the model to previously published dynamic phosphocreatine (PCr) and inorganic phosphate (P(i)) data obtained in normal subjects with an activity-recovery protocol using (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The experiment consisted of a baseline phase, an ischemic phase (during which muscle stimulation and PCr utilization occurred), and an aerobic recovery phase. The model described satisfactorily the kinetics of the changes in PCr and P(i) and allowed estimation of the maximal velocity of oxidative phosphorylation and of the net ATP flux in individuals both at rest and during stimulation. This work lays the foundation for a quantitative, model-based approach to the study of in vivo muscle energy balance in intact muscle systems, including human muscle.
10899710	Three-dimensional organization of microtubules in tumor cells studied by confocal laser scanning microscopy and computer-assisted deconvolution and image reconstruction.	Confocal microscopy, image deconvolution and computer-assisted methods have been used to reconstruct the three-dimensional (3-D) distribution of tubulin in cells. The techniques were applied to tumor cells growing under regular culture conditions (planar cultivation) and those penetrating into reconstituted collagen matrices (spatial cultivation). As expected the application of deconvolution algorithms enhanced the resolution of results. The deconvolution using the maximum likelihood estimation included the measurement of the point spread function of the optical setup. The data visualization of the resulting data sets uses volume as well as surface rendering approaches. The 3-D reconstruction gives a clear image of the spatial arrangement of tubulin fibers in relation to cell shape and position of other cellular organelles, particularly the nucleus. The tubulin forms an intricate network of fibers of variable thickness. The highest tubulin concentrations appear in the cell periphery and particularly in pseudopodia/invadopodia. This is indicative of an enhanced transport of intracellular material facilitating cell movement and lysis of the extracellular matrix. The investigation is assumed to stimulate further experiments using a variety of techniques leading to the complete understanding of the spatial architecture of living cells.
10901836	[Neurocognitive subtypes of schizophrenia according to performance at verbal fluency tasks]	There is a general agreement that schizophrenia is an heterogeneous disorder and cognitive performances could be an interesting feature in order to allow a better description of specific subtypes. The aim of this study was: 1) to describe clinical and neuropsychological performances of 45 DSM IV schizophrenic patients divided in two groups according to their performances in verbal fluency task; 2) to compare each group with the performances of healthy subjects matched for sex, age and education. METHOD: The differentiation criteria was the total number of words generated during 3 formal and 3 semantic fluency tasks. Data were analysed using a disjoint clustering procedure with Euclidean distance. A two cluster solution was considered optimal. Cluster S1 includes 21 schizophrenic subjects defined as low performer (range: 40-83, mean 66.7). Cluster S2 includes 24 schizophrenic subjects (range: 87-158, mean 102.8). All schizophrenic patients were clinically evaluated with SANS, SAPS and a psychosocial aptitude rating scale (PARS). Patients and controls were assessed with the following battery: verbal fluency, Trail making test A &amp; B, Stroop test, Brown Peterson paradigm for evaluation of working memory. RESULTS: Patients with low verbal fluency had significantly higher scores at the SANS and PARS. Furthermore, the low performers (cluster S1) were differentiated from those with better performances (cluster S2) by significantly poorer results in all neuropsychological tests. Comparison with healthy subjects indicated that cluster S1 patients also had significantly poorer results in all neuropsychological tests. Relative to their 24 controls cluster S2 patients performances was lower in all measures excepted in one subscore of the Stroop test and in the number of cluster produced. This later result could indicate that some capacities for willed intention were preserved in this group and that the alteration in verbal fluency performances were better explained by impairment of the other cognitive processes. DISCUSSION: These findings point out that: 1) use of performance in cognitive executive task such as verbal fluency is a possible criteria in order to separate different types of schizophrenic patients; 2) in the two groups of schizophrenic subjects, various processes defects underline cognitive performances indicating the presence of different neurobiological dysfunctioning.
10912960	Obstetricians' ability to assess the airway.	OBJECTIVES: To assess the ability of obstetricians to recognize parturients at risk for difficult intubation and to examine the effect of education in airway examination on that ability. METHODS: The airways of 160 parturients were examined by four physicians: one attending and one resident obstetrician, and one attending and one resident anesthesiologist. After each airway examination, the physicians completed questionnaires about possible difficult intubation, use of antepartum consultation, and choice of analgesia early in labor. RESULTS: Instruction in airway examination did not affect obstetricians' ability to assess airways. Compared with the attending anesthesiologist's opinion, the sensitivity and specificity of the attending obstetrician before instruction were 0.59 and 0.82, respectively, and for the obstetric resident, 0.41 and 0.89, respectively. After instruction, the sensitivity and specificity for the obstetric attending physician were 0.60 and 0.83, respectively and for the obstetric resident, 0.50 and 0.87, respectively. In airways judged possible difficult intubations by the obstetricians, instruction did not affect the use of antepartum consultation or early epidural analgesia by the residents. In the obstetric attending physicians there was a significant increase in use of early epidural analgesia. CONCLUSION: Although instruction in airway examination did not affect obstetricians' ability to predict difficult airways, it did affect treatment of labor analgesia.
10918533	Overweight and obesity in Brazilian adolescents.	OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to describe the prevalence of overweight and obesity (OW+O) among Brazilian adolescents and to identify risks for subpopulations defined according to the five country macro-regions and situation (urban-rural) of the domiciles, income, years of school attendance, age and sex. DESIGN: A nationwide home-based survey representative of the Brazilian civilian noninstitutionalized population, performed in 1989. METHODS: The sampling plans followed a stratified, multistage, probability cluster design in The National Research of Health and Nutrition sample, which collected anthropometric data of 14,455 domiciles. In all, 13,715 adolescents ranging from 10 to 19 y of age were studied. The OW+O was defined from a body mass index (BMI) equal or superior to the 85th percentile of the reference population of the NCHS. The prevalences in the different studied groups were compared using the adjusted odds ratio in logistic regression models. RESULTS: The prevalence of OW+O was of 7.7%, reaching 10.6% within the female group and 4.8% within the male group. A direct relation could be established between the socioeconomic level and OW+O. Adolescents of the most industrialized region of the country presented a risk of OW+O 1.86 (95% CI 1.51-2.30) times higher than that found in the least developed region. Male youngsters who lived in urban areas were more liable (OR=1.71, 95% CI 1.30-2.25) to overweight than their counterparts of rural areas. The occurrence of menarche increased two and a half times (OR=2.58, 95% CI 2.11-3.15) the risk of OW+O within the female group of adolescents. CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate a low prevalence of OW+O among Brazilian adolescents when compared with adolescents of more industrialized regions. The OW+O is twice as high within the female group, which represents a much greater difference than the one encountered in industrialized countries, probably owing to the muscular work carried out preponderantly by male adolescents of lower socioeconomic levels. Higher prevalences in subpopulations of higher socioeconomic level and of more industrialized regions show the great need for differentiated actions to control overweight and obesity in the country.
10919140	[Neuroanatomy of Parkinson disease. Changes in the neuronal cytoskeleton of a few disease-susceptible types of neurons lead to progressive destruction of circumscribed areas in the limbic and motor systems]	Morbus Parkinson is a progressive degenerative disease of the human central, peripheral, and enteric nervous systems. In the course of the disease, not only the substantia nigra, but also extranigral components of the motor system, as well as numerous limbic system and autonomic centers undergo serious damage. Accordingly, Parkinson's disease is a multisystem disorder. Only specific types of projection neurons fall victim to it. The first manifestation of the pathological process which causes the disease are abnormalities of the neuronal cytoskeleton. Intracytoplasmic inclusions evolving in the form of Lewy bodies in perikarya and Lewy neurites in the neuronal processes result in premature cell death of the affected neurons. On the basis of this selective neuronal vulnerability, a categorization emerges of the pathological changes within the nervous system and corresponding functional impairments.
10920365	Determination of metrifonate enantiomers in blood and brain samples using liquid chromatography on a chiral stationary phase coupled to tandem mass spectrometry.	A novel enantioselective assay is described for the simultaneous determination of the metrifonate enantiomers BAY z 7216 and BAY z 7217 in extracts of whole blood samples obtained from rats, mice, rabbits and Beagle dogs as well as in rat brain tissue using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) with thermally and pneumatically assisted electrospray ionization (TurboIonSpray(R)). Chromatographic separation is achieved on a chiral normal phase column with a mobile phase containing 0.25% water only. The total run time per sample is 11.0 min giving chromatographic base line separation of the enantiomers. Compared with previous methods this assay offers a higher sample throughput, excellent ruggedness and higher sensitivity. The limits of quantification for each enantiomer are 5.00 microg/L from 0.5 mL whole blood and 7.50 ng/g (ppb) using 0.333 g brain tissue, respectively. Similar assay specifications have been derived for the two enantiomers. The method has been validated for the analysis of blood samples from low and high dosed preclinical pharmacokinetic and toxicokinetic studies, corresponding to two analytical working ranges like e.g. 5.00 to 1000 microg/L and 200 to 40000 microg/L (0. 200 to 40.0 mg/L). For rat brain tissue the validated concentration range is 7.50 to 750 ng/g (ppb).
10928157	Different fraction schedules and combinations with chemotherapy in radiation treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.	BACKGROUND: In locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), studies demonstrating advantages with hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy versus conventional radiotherapy have been published, so have studies demonstrating the value of chemotherapy concomitantly with radiotherapy. However, the value of non-conventional fractionation together with concomitant chemotherapy has not been investigated. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Consecutive patients from a single institution were studied in a retrospective non-randomised fashion. Inclusion criteria were stage III NSCLC, treatment with curative intent and a total dose above 50 Gy. RESULTS: Eighty-two patients were included and further divided into four different treatment groups. Multivariate analysis indicated a survival advantage with non-conventional radiotherapy (NCRT), especially if combined with concomitant chemotherapy. Toxicity was feasible, however there was a trend towards higher toxicity, mainly esophagitis, in patients given concomitant chemotherapy with NCRT. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that accelerated hyperfractionated radiotherapy with concomitant chemotherapy could be an interesting test-arm in a future prospective study.
10946585	Compensation for subliminal timing perturbations in perceptual-motor synchronization.	It is sometimes assumed that limits of temporal discrimination established in psychophysical tasks constrain the timing information available for the control of action. Results from the five perceptual-motor synchronization experiments presented here argue against this assumption. Experiment 1 demonstrates that subliminal (0.8-2%) local changes in interval duration in an otherwise isochronous auditory sequence are rapidly compensated for in the timing of synchronized finger tapping. If this compensation is based on perception of the highly variable synchronization error (SE) rather than of the local change in stimulus period, then it could be based solely on SEs that exceed the temporal order threshold. However, that hypothesis is ruled out by additional analyses of Exp. 1 and the results of Exp. 2, a combined synchronization and temporal order judgment task. Experiments 3-5 further show that three factors that affect the detectability of local deviations from stimulus isochrony do not inhibit effective compensation for such deviations in synchronized tapping. Experiment 5, a combined synchronization and detection task, shows directly that compensation for timing perturbations does not depend on explicit detection. Overall, the results suggest that the automatic processes involved in the temporal control of action have access to more accurate timing information than do the conscious decision processes of auditory temporal judgment.
10971405	Hereditary cyclic neutropenia in the male members of a Chinese family with inverted Y chromosome.	We describe four male members of a Chinese family, including the father and three sons, with hereditary cyclic neutropenia. These patients had all developed cyclic neutropenia in childhood with a cycle of around 21 d. Recurrent mucosa and skin infections with fever had occurred frequently, but gradually decreased in severity on reaching adulthood. Monocytosis was found during the neutrophil nadirs in all four patients. Mildly increased serum immunoglobulin (Ig)A and IgG levels, low levels of serum stem cell factor, as well as decreased sperm count and motility were demonstrated in the two elder sons. Chromosomal analysis showed a pericentric inversion of Y chromosome [46,X, inv(Y)(p11.2;q11.23)] in all of the men. These findings may suggest an association between cyclic neutropenia with oligospermia and inv(Y)(p11.2;q11.23) in this particular family.
10981601	Optimal outcome measures, research priorities, and international cooperation.	The participants in the Eriksholm Workshop on &quot;Measuring Outcomes in Audiological Rehabilitation Using Hearing Aids&quot; debated three issues that are reported in this article. First, it was agreed that the characteristics of an optimal outcome measure vary as a function of the purpose of the measurement. Potential characteristics of outcome self-report tools for four common goals of outcome measurement are briefly presented to illustrate this point. Second, 10 important research priorities in outcome measurement were identified and ranked. They are presented with brief discussion of the top five. Third, the concept of generating a brief universally applicable outcome measure was endorsed. This brief data set is intended to supplement existing outcome measures and to promote data combination and comparison across different social, cultural, and health-care delivery systems. A set of seven core items is proposed for further study.
10987314	Protein metabolism in the small intestine during cancer cachexia and chemotherapy in mice.	The impact of cancer cachexia and chemotherapy on small intestinal protein metabolism and its subsequent recovery was investigated. Cancer cachexia was induced in mice with colon 26 adenocarcinoma, which is a small and slow-growing tumor characteristic of the human condition, and can be cured with 100% efficacy using an experimental nitrosourea, cystemustine (C6H12ClN3O4S). Both healthy mice and tumor-bearing mice were given a single i.p. injection of cystemustine (20 mg/kg) 3 days after the onset of cachexia. Cancer cachexia led to a reduced in vivo rate of protein synthesis in the small intestine relative to healthy mice (-13 to -34%; P &lt; 0.05), resulting in a 25% loss of protein mass (P &lt; 0.05), and decreased villus width and crypt depth (P &lt; 0.05). In treated mice, acute cytotoxicity of chemotherapy did not promote further wasting of small intestinal protein mass, nor did it result in further damage to intestinal morphology. In contrast, mucosal damage and a 17% reduction in small intestinal protein mass (P &lt; 0.05) were evident in healthy mice treated with cystemustine, suggesting that the effects of chemotherapy on the small intestine in a state of cancer cachexia are not additive, which was an unexpected finding. Complete and rapid recovery of small intestinal protein mass in cured mice resulted from an increase in the rate of protein synthesis compared with healthy mice (23-34%; P &lt; 0.05). Northern hybridizations of mRNA encoding components of the major proteolytic systems suggested that proteolysis may not have mediated intestinal wasting or recovery. A major clinical goal should be to design methods to improve small intestinal protein metabolism before the initiation of chemotherapy.
10992728	Pleural empyema due to Salmonella: a case report.	Pleuropulmonary involvement of salmonella infection is very rare and only two cases of salmonella empyema have been reported in Korea. We report the case of a 70-year-old female diabetic patient who presented with right flank pain and right lower chest pain. The chest radiographs revealed fibrostreaky and hazy density at right lower lung field and blunting of right costophrenic angle. Thoracentesis revealed turbid yellowish fluid. Salmonella group B was identified from the cultures of blood and pleural fluid. After antimicrobial therapy and repeated therapeutic thoracentesis, the patient was improved.
10998662	New therapies for functional bowel diseases.	During recent years, a greater understanding of the pathophysiology of functional bowel disease, and a surge of interest in this challenge among pharmacologists, basic scientists, and clinical investigators, have led to novel insights and promising therapies. The evidence to support current therapies in nonculcer dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is reviewed, and some of the novel therapeutic approaches on the threshold of clinical application are described.
11007285	An alternative approach to antifouling based on analogues of natural processes.	A number of marine organisms are able to resist fouling pressure and remain essentially free of fouling. Some organisms are totally devoid of even the first stages of biofilm formation involving bacteria and microalgae. A key feature in recent research has been the realisation that previous low adherence technology is an insufficient technical solution and that natural models, based on marine and other organisms, incorporate other passive techniques for fouling resistance. These characteristics may be incorporated into physical analogues of the natural processes. This paper describes ways of producing physical analogues of some such characteristics, the application of such techniques to surfaces in the marine environment and the environmental impact. The paper includes some results of recent trials and a cost comparison.
11010766	Fractures of the mandibular condyle. Part 1: patterns of distribution of types and causes of fractures in 348 patients.	This prospective study was designed to record relevant characteristics of mandibular condyle fractures and to evaluate the relationship between these. Data were recorded on sex, age, cause of trauma, level of fracture, dislocation of the mandibular head, dental state and associated fractures of all patients diagnosed in our hospital during the period 1984-1996 with mandibular condyle fractures. Data were analysed in our Computer Department.The sample comprised 348 patients with 444 fractures, and a male:female ratio of 2:1. Traffic accidents were the most common cause: 103 (41%) of the unilateral and 54 (56%) of the bilateral fractures, followed by alleged assault and falls. Low fractures were the most common -n = 314 of 444 (71%).The causes that involved considerable force (traffic accidents and falls) resulted in more dislocations of the mandibular head, more bilateral fractures, a tendency to fractures higher on the condyle and significantly more intracapsular fractures. Absence of molar occlusion also gave more high and fewer low fractures, but played no part in dislocation of the mandibular head from the glenoid fossa.
11032158	Visual impairment and risk of hip fracture.	As part of a case-control study, the Auckland Hip Fracture Study (1991-1994), the authors examined associations between impaired vision and risk of hip fracture. Subjects (911 cases and 910 controls aged 60 years or older) completed a questionnaire and had vision measurements taken, including measurements of visual acuity and stereopsis (depth perception). Binocular visual acuity worse than 20/60 was statistically significantly associated with increased risk of hip fracture after adjustment for age, sex, proxy response, hours of activity per week, and height (odds ratio (OR) = 1.5; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.1, 2.0), as was having poor vision (less than 20/100) in both eyes (OR = 2.4; 95% CI: 1.0, 6.1). Having no depth perception was associated with increased risk (OR = 6.0 95% CI: 3.2, 11.1), as were categories of decreasing stereopsis (trend p = 0.0001), self-reported poor vision (OR = 1.4; 95% CI: 1.0, 1.9), not wearing glasses at the time of the fall (OR = 1.2; 95% CI: 1.0, 1.6), and increasing time since the last eye examination (trend p = 0.03). The population attributable risk of hip fracture due to poor visual acuity or stereopsis was 40%. Visual factors are important fall-related factors which influence risk of hip fracture. Risk of hip fracture may be decreased by correcting refractive error, improving stereopsis, and administering regular eye examinations.
11045994	Assessing baroreflex gain from spontaneous variability in conscious dogs: role of causality and respiration.	A double exogenous autoregressive (XXAR) causal parametric model was used to estimate the baroreflex gain (alpha(XXAR)) from spontaneous R-R interval and systolic arterial pressure (SAP) variabilities in conscious dogs. This model takes into account 1) effects of current and past SAP variations on the R-R interval (i.e., baroreflex-mediated influences), 2) specific perturbations affecting R-R interval independently of baroreflex circuit (e.g., rhythmic neural inputs modulating R-R interval independently of SAP at frequencies slower than respiration), and 3) influences of respiration-related sources acting independently of baroreflex pathway (e.g., rhythmic neural inputs modulating R-R interval independently of SAP at respiratory rate, including the effect of stimulation of low-pressure receptors). Under control conditions, alpha(XXAR) = 14.7 +/- 7.2 ms/mmHg. It decreases after nitroglycerine infusion and coronary artery occlusion, even though the decrease is significant only after nitroglycerine, and it is completely abolished by total arterial baroreceptor denervation. Moreover, alpha(XXAR) is comparable to or significantly smaller than (depending on the experimental condition) the baroreflex gains derived from sequence, power spectrum [at low frequency (LF) and high frequency (HF)], and cross-spectrum (at LF and HF) analyses and from less complex causal parametric models, thus demonstrating that simpler estimates may be biased by the contemporaneous presence of regulatory mechanisms other than baroreflex mechanisms.
11051148	Heart-related indices in experimental diaphragmatic hernia.	BACKGROUND: Heart-related indices have been suggested as useful tools to evaluate left ventricular (LV) hypoplasia, which might predict the outcome of fetuses and infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). The current study analyzed the behavior of such indices in the nitrofen-induced CDH rat model. METHODS: Dated pregnant Wistar rats received at day 9.5 of gestation either a dose of 100 mg of nitrofen or just the vehicle. Body, lung, and heart weights were measured in 12 newborn rats not exposed to nitrofen (Ctrl group) and 68 animals exposed to nitrofen: 30 without CDH (non-CDH group) and 38 with left CDH (CDH group). Each heart was fragmented in 7-microm thick sections. Only hearts with no evidence of cardiac morphologic defects (CMD) were studied further to estimate right and left ventricular cavity volumes, septal, right, and left ventricular free wall masses. These parameters allowed the calculation of the cardio-ventricular (CVindex) and LV mass indices. The aorta-to-pulmonary artery ratio also was calculated. RESULTS: Excluding fetuses with CMD, the heart-to-body weight ratio was reduced significantly in animals exposed to nitrofen, whereas no significant differences were observed between non-CDH versus CDH groups. Although the left and right ventricular cavity volumes were both reduced significantly in nitrofen-treated rats, they were not changed significantly by the existence of CDH, and the calculated CVindex was similar in the 3 groups. Estimated septal and LV masses were reduced markedly in the nitrofen-treated animals and further reduced by the presence of CDH. However, when LV mass was normalized (LV mass index) the difference became restricted to the animals exposed to nitrofen but was not influenced by the presence of CDH. Finally, the aorta-to-pulmonary artery ratio was similar in all studied groups. CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study suggest that, although nitrofen had been responsible by global heart hypoplasia, the presence of CDH was not associated with significant underdevelopment of the heart or of the LV in rat fetuses without CMD. Based on these results, we think that the evidence for prenatal counseling based on heart-related indices should be critically reconsidered.
11075308	Bioavailability and metabolism of mometasone furoate following administration by metered-dose and dry-powder inhalers in healthy human volunteers.	These studies were conducted to assess the systemic bioavailability of mometasone furoate (MF) administered by both the dry-powder inhaler (DPI) and the metered-dose inhaler with an alternate propellant (MDI-AP). The pharmacokinetics of single doses (400 micrograms) of MF administered by intravenous (i.v.) and inhalation routes was assessed in a randomized, three-way crossover study involving 24 healthy volunteers. In a separate study, 6 healthy subjects were administered a single dose of tritiated (3H-) MF by DPI, and the radioactivity in blood, urine, feces, and expired air was determined. Following i.v. administration, MF was detected in all subjects for at least 8 hours postdose. The half-life (t1/2) following i.v. administration was 4.5 hours. In contrast, following DPI administration, plasma MF concentrations were below the limit of quantification (LOQ, 50 pg/mL) for many subjects (10 of 24), and the systemic bioavailability by this route was estimated to be less than 1%. Only two plasma samples following MDI-AP administration had plasma concentrations of MF above the LOQ indicating no detectable systemic bioavailability in 92% of the subjects. A separate study with 6 healthy male subjects administered a single dose of 3H-MF (200 microCi) by DPI revealed that much of the dose (approximately 41%) was excreted unchanged in the feces (0-72 hours), while that which was absorbed was extensively metabolized. These results indicate that inhaled MF has negligible systemic bioavailability and is extensively metabolized and should therefore be well tolerated in the chronic treatment of asthma.
11092828	Genetics of lipoprotein abnormalities associated with coronary artery disease susceptibility.	Coronary heart disease is a complex genetic disease with many genes involved, environmental influences, and important gene-environment interactions. This review discusses the genetic basis of the principal lipoprotein abnormalities associated with coronary heart disease susceptibility in the general population. Individual sections discuss genes regulating LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglyceride levels. A section is included on the effects of the common apo E genetic variation on lipoprotein levels, as well as sections on the genetic regulation of lipoprotein(a) levels, genes regulating the inverse relationship between triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and HDL cholesterol levels, and our current understanding of the genetic basis of familial combined hyperlipidemia. It is clear that the field has progressed, with early studies focused mainly on the association of candidate gene RFLPs with phenotypes, later studies of candidate genes in both parametric and nonparametric linkage studies, and now more and more studies combining linkage analysis with genome scans to identify new loci that influence lipoprotein phenotypes. The future should provide us with the capability to perform reasonable genetic profiling for lipoprotein abnormalities associated with coronary heart disease susceptibility.
11093663	Determination of deramciclane and N-desmethylderamciclane in human plasma by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry using off-line robotic sample pretreatment.	A rapid and highly sensitive LC-MS-MS method using deuterium-labelled internal standards was developed and evaluated for the simultaneous determination of deramciclane and its pharmacologically active metabolite (N-desmethylderamciclane). The sample preparation based on liquid-liquid extraction was carried out with an off-line robotic system. Evaluation of this analytical method shows that samples can be assayed with acceptable accuracy and precision in the 0.1 to 50 ng/ml concentration range for both compounds. The method was applied for the quantitative determination of deramciclane and its metabolite in human plasma samples during a food interaction pharmacokinetic study.
11093839	Some compartmental models of the root: steady-state behavior.	Plots of the pressure difference (DeltaP) applied to plant roots vs. the resulting volume flow rate (Q(v)) often exhibit an anomalous offset that has been difficult to explain. The present analysis suggests that solute build-up in two- and three-compartment models of the root cannot account for this offset. The Ginsburg-Newman three-compartment model explains the offset in terms of differing reflection coefficients for the membranes bounding the intermediate compartment. This model appears more promising, but it predicts a minimum in the plot of xylem-sap osmotic pressure vs. Q(v)which is not observed in practice. Fiscus hypothesized that an internal asymmetric distribution of non-mobile solutes is responsible for the offset. In the present study, this hypothesis is incorporated into a four-compartment model of the root that is conceptually related to the three-compartment model of Miller. But according to the four-compartment model, the asymmetric solute distribution does not arise because of solvent drag. Rather the anomalous offset is associated with a concentration gradient of photoassimilates (the non-mobile solutes) that exists in the absence of volume flow, and which drives the diffusive transport of these solutes from the stele to the cortex via endodermal plasmodesmata. This model is consistent with the existence of radial symplastic osmotic-pressure gradients, and it appears to have greater explanatory power than the Ginsburg-Newman model. In particular, it suggests explanations for diurnal variations in DeltaP-Q(v)curves, as well as the effects of changing external solute concentrations. It also shows how the overall root reflection coefficient can be less than unity, even when the cell membranes are effectively ideally semipermeable, and there is negligible extracellular transport of water and solutes. The model makes a number of experimentally testable predictions.
11108311	Melphalan-associated pulmonary toxicity following high-dose therapy with autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.	Melphalan can rarely cause interstitial pneumonitis and fibrosis. Although it has been reported previously in patients after conventional doses, we report four cases developing diffuse interstitial pneumonitis (DIP) after high-dose melphalan-based therapy. In a 3-year period, four of 57 (7%) consecutive patients undergoing high-dose melphalan (200 mg/m2; MEL 200) were identified with DIP. Two patients who were heavily pre-treated with alkylators developed progressive respiratory failure despite high-dose steroids and eventually died. The other two patients previously treated with vincristine, adriamycin, and dexamethasone (VAD) improved dramatically on high-dose steroids with complete resolution of their pneumonitis. Melphalan should be added to the growing list of alkylators causing pulmonary toxicity.
11108750	Cardiac arrhythmias and stroke: increased risk in men with high frequency of atrial ectopic beats.	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: With the exception of atrial fibrillation (AF), little scientific attention has been given the associations between cardiac arrhythmias and incidence of stroke. We sought to study whether atrial and ventricular arrhythmias assessed during a 24-hour ambulatory ECG registration are associated with incidence of stroke. METHODS: The population-based cohort &quot;Men Born in 1914&quot; was examined with 24-hour ambulatory ECG registrations at 68 years of age. Four hundred two men without previous myocardial infarction or stroke were included, and 236 of them had hypertension (>/=160/95 mm Hg or treatment). Fourteen-year rates of stroke (fatal and nonfatal) and all-cause mortality were updated from national and regional registers. Frequent or complex ventricular arrhythmias was defined as Lown class 2 to 5. A high frequency of atrial ectopic beats (AEB) was defined as the fifth quintile (ie, >/=218 AEB per 24 hours). RESULTS: Fifty-eight men suffered a first stroke during the follow-up. Stroke rates (per 1000 person-years) among men with AF (n=14), with frequent AEB (n=77), and without AF or frequent AEB (n=311) were 34.5, 19.5, and 11.6, respectively. The corresponding values among men with hypertension were 40.7, 32.3, and 14.7, respectively. Frequent AEB (compared with absence of AF and frequent AEB) was significantly associated with stroke among all men (relative risk=1.9; 95% CI, 1.02 to 3.4; P:=0.04) and among hypertensive men (relative risk=2.5; 95% CI, 1.3 to 4.8; P:=0.009) after adjustments for potential confounders. The increased stroke rates among men with Lown class 2 to 5 did not reach statistical significance. CONCLUSIONS: A high frequency of AEB is associated with an increased incidence of stroke.
11109010	Four year prospective evaluation of nosocomial bacteremia: epidemiology, microbiology, and patient outcome.	A prospective study of all patients with clinically significant nosocomial bacteremia at one institution from 1994 to 1997 was performed to: (1) describe the epidemiology and microbiology of nosocomial bacteremias; (2) determine the crude mortality associated with such infections; and (3) identify independent predictors of mortality. Four hundred four episodes of bacteremia occurred in 322 patients; the crude in-hospital mortality was 31%. Coagulase-negative staphylococci, Staphylococcus aureus, and enterococci were the leading pathogens, and intravascular catheters were the most frequently identified source. The highest mortality occurred in patients with candidemia (67%). Independent predictors of mortality included evidence of shock at the time of infection, acquisition of bacteremia in an intensive care unit, a &quot;Do Not Attempt Resuscitation&quot; order, and the presence of certain comorbid conditions (e.g., malignancy, HIV infection). Because many of these infections may be preventable, education of health care providers and strict adherence to established infection control practices are critical.
11116399	Survival and nodulating ability of indigenous and inoculated Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar trifolii in sterilized and unsterilized soil treated with sewage sludge.	Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar trifolii was detected in soil from 41 of 47 plots, within nine sewage sludge-treated sites with different soil characteristics and heavy metal contents. However, although population size varied widely, there was no consistent correlation with soil heavy metal concentration. Indigenous populations in 20 plots within four selected sites retained their ability to induce effective nodule formation after incubation of soil in the dark for 165 days. In sterilized (gamma-irradiated) soil, Rhizobium survival varied from 0.01% to 95% depending on the soil sample and strain used. Metal-resistant strains with non-mucoid colonies survived less well than mucoid metal-sensitive strains.
11124350	Reasoning about containment events in very young infants.	The present research examined very young infants' expectations about containment events. In Experiment 1, 3.5-month-old infants saw a test event in which an object was lowered inside a container with either a wide opening (open-container condition) or no opening (closed-container condition) in its top surface. The infants looked reliably longer at the closed- than at the open-container test event. These and baseline data suggested that the infants recognized that the object could be lowered inside the container with the open but not the closed top. In Experiment 2, 3.5-month-old infants saw a test event in which an object was lowered either behind (behind-container condition) or inside (inside-container condition) a container; next, the container was moved forward and to the side, revealing the object behind it. The infants looked reliably longer at the inside- than at the behind-container test event. These and baseline results suggested that the infants in the inside-container condition realized that the object could not pass through the back wall of the container and hence should have moved with it to its new location. Experiments 3 and 4 extended the results of Experiments 1 and 2 to 2.5-month-old infants. Together, the present results indicate that even very young infants possess expectations about containment events. The possible origins and development of these expectations are discussed in the context of Baillargeon's model (Advances in infancy research 9 (1995) 305. Norwood, NJ: Ablex) of infants' acquisition of physical knowledge, and of Spelke's proposal (Cognition 50 (1994) 431) that, from birth, infants interpret physical events in accord with a solidity principle.
11129006	Diagnosis and management of the lateralized tympanic membrane.	OBJECTIVE: Lateralization of the tympanic membrane (TM) is associated with significant morbidity. In a series of 14 patients, we make observations to illuminate this condition for the diagnosing and treating physician. STUDY DESIGN: Chart review of 14 consecutively treated patients. METHODS: We analyzed the presenting signs and symptoms, etiology, audiometric data, and operative findings of patients with a lateralized tympanic membrane (TM). RESULTS: The etiology was postsurgical in 13 patients (there were four aural atresia repairs and nine tympanoplasties), with 2 patients having had multiple previous surgeries. Presentation averaged more than 5 years after the latest surgery. Presenting symptoms included hearing loss in 10, tinnitus in 3, vertigo in 3, and otorrhea in 2 patients; 3 patients were nonsymptomatic at the time of presentation. The average air-bone gaps were 39 dB before treatment and 29 dB after treatment. Operative findings included cholesteatoma in six patients. Eight patients healed with the TM in the normal position; one had TM retraction, one had a TM perforation, and three had a recurrent lateralization. CONCLUSION: The lateralized TM is primarily, but not necessarily, a complication of otological surgery. It may be associated with considerable morbidity, including hearing loss and cholesteatoma. Patients may present several years after their surgery, occasionally as an incidental finding. Surgical repair is often necessary for significant underlying disease, but re-establishment of a normal TM can be challenging.
11131065	Dynamic programming to investigate financial impacts of mastitis control decisions in milk production systems.	An adaptive stochastic dynamic programming model was used to solve the optimum replacement decision problem for the dairy cow under a range of alternative mastitis control procedures. The model predicted that reducing milk yield losses and somatic cell count penalties by, using milking machine test, post-milking teat disinfection and dry cow therapy added approximately pounds sterling 4, pounds sterling 10 and pounds sterling 13 respectively to an original annuity equivalent net present value for the replacement heifer of pounds sterling 286. Assuming that these procedures also reduced involuntary culling due to mastitis by 50% added pounds sterling 8.90 to the annuity. This latter figure indicated that an important part of the benefit of mastitis control procedures might come from a reduction in the culling risk of persistent clinical cases. We concluded that the strength of the dynamic programming model in this context was that it provided an integrated evaluation of the various impacts of each alternative mastitis procedure in the long term, which is essential for correct economic evaluation of mastitis.
11160439	Enhanced neurotensin neurotransmission is involved in the clinically relevant behavioral effects of antipsychotic drugs: evidence from animal models of sensorimotor gating.	To date, none of the available antipsychotic drugs are curative, all have significant side-effect potential, and a receptor-binding profile predictive of superior therapeutic ability has not been determined. It has become increasingly clear that schizophrenia does not result from the dysfunction of a single neurotransmitter system, but rather from an imbalance between several interacting systems. Targeting neuropeptide neuromodulator systems that concertedly regulate all affected neurotransmitter systems could be a promising novel therapeutic approach for schizophrenia. A considerable database is concordant with the hypothesis that antipsychotic drugs act, at least in part, by increasing the synthesis and release of the neuropeptide neurotensin (NT). In this report, we demonstrate that NT neurotransmission is critically involved in the behavioral effects of antipsychotic drugs in two models of antipsychotic drug activity: disrupted prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response (PPI) and the latent inhibition (LI) paradigm. Blockade of NT neurotransmission using the NT receptor antagonist 2-[[5-(2,6-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-(4-(N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N-methylcarbamoyl)-2-isopropylphenyl)-1H- pyrazole-3-carbonyl]-amino]-adamantane-2-carboxylic acid, hydrochloride (SR 142948A) prevented the normal acquisition of LI and haloperidol-induced enhancement of LI. In addition, SR 142948A blocked the PPI-restoring effects of haloperidol and the atypical antipsychotic drug quetiapine in isolation-reared animals deficient in PPI. We also provide evidence of deficient NT neurotransmission as well as a left-shifted antipsychotic drug dose-response curve in isolation-reared rats. These novel findings, together with previous observations, suggest that neurotensin receptor agonists may represent a novel class of antipsychotic drugs.
11183626	Principal-agent relationships in general practice: the first wave of English Personal Medical Services pilot contracts.	OBJECTIVES: To investigate how far English National Health Service (NHS) Personal Medical Services (PMS) contracts embody a principal-agent relationship between health authorities (HAs) and primary health care providers, especially, but not exclusively, general practices involved in the first wave (1998) of PMS pilot projects; and to consider the implications for relational and classical theories of contract. METHODS: Content analysis of 71 first-wave PMS contracts. RESULTS: Most PMS contracts reflect current English NHS policy priorities, but few institute mechanisms to ensure that providers realise these objectives. Although PMS contracts have some classical characteristics, relational characteristics are more evident. Some characteristics match neither the classical nor the relational model. CONCLUSIONS: First-wave PMS contracts do not appear to embody a strong principal-agent relationship between HAs and primary health care providers. This finding offers little support for the relevance of classical theories of contract, but also implies that relational theories of contract need to be revised for quasi-market settings. Future PMS contracts will need to focus more on evidence-based processes of primary care, health outputs and patient satisfaction and less upon service inputs. PMS contracts will also need to be longer-term contracts in order to promote the 'institutional embedding' of independent general practice in the wider management systems of the NHS.
11186241	Gastrointestinal first-pass effect of furosemide in rats.	The first-pass effect of furosemide was investigated in rats. Furosemide intravenous solution (20 mg kg(-1) Lasix), was administered via the jugular vein and the portal vein, orally, and instilled directly into the duodenum of rats. The first-pass effects of furosemide by lung, heart, and liver seemed to be negligible in rats. The absolute bioavailability of furosemide was 28.9 and 48.3% after oral and intraduodenal administration, respectively. Based on the gastrointestinal (GI) recovery study, 68.3 and 69.5% of furosemide were found to have disappeared mainly due to absorption and/or metabolism from rat GI tract after oral and intraduodenal administration, respectively. The results indicate that gastrointestinal and intestinal first-pass effects of furosemide were approximately 40% (68.3-28.9%) and 20% (69.5-48.3%) of the dose, respectively.
11188950	[Executive cognitive alteration of prefrontal type in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy]	This study examines the performance on executive function--classically considered as purported by the frontal lobes--in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Two groups of patients were evaluated: one consisted of 16 TLE patients and the other comprised 12 patients with primary generalised epilepsy (PGE). The Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) was used as a measure of executive function. Results demonstrated that performance on the WCST was remarkably defective in the TLE group, showing a pattern suggestive of frontal like executive dysfunction in a 75% of the patients, against the 17% of the PGE group (p &lt; 0.001). Impairment was evident when number of categories achieved (p &lt; 0.05), perseverative errors (p &lt; 0.001) and perseverative responses (p &lt; 0.001) were considered. Clinical and theoretical significance of these findings may reflex the executive dysfunction of the mesial temporal lobe region as part of the temporo-frontal circuit.
11190642	[Quality assurance in excision of suspected malignant, preoperatively marked and unmarked, breast lesions. A one-year analysis]	The breast cancer incidence is increasing for all industrial countries in the last years. Therefore the relevance of screening methods especially of mammography for early registration of suspected lesions becomes more and more important. One result of using screening methods is an increased rate of patients with lesions which are suspected for cancer but non palpable. For the background of that fact we are describing our one year experience with the therapy of cancer suspected breast lesions in 136 female patients. In 47 cases (34.6%) there was a palpable and in 89 cases (65.4%) a non-palpable lesion. The need for mammography was assured in 43 patients (48.3%) through mastopathic controls, in 23 patients (25.8%) within the frame work of a preventive first mammography and in 15 patients (16.8%) through controls after operative therapy for breast cancer. All non-palpable lesions were marked preoperatively through mammography 88.8% (n = 79), sonography 6.7% (n = 6), or through magnet resonance imaging MRI 4.7% (n = 4). Every mammographic marked case was followed by an intraoperative specimen mammography. In 16.8% (n = 15 from 89) of the non-palpable marked areas, a carcinoma was found. 16.7% (n = 3) of the detected cancers were diagnosed in an in-situ-stage, all others in an early stage (pT1-, pN0-, M0-stage) and treated. Besides the early diagnosis of breast cancer and the resulted improvement of prognosis also the rate of breast saving therapies can be increased. Reflecting our datas it should be demanded a regular screening for defined risk groups. In conclusion to improve the prognosis of breast cancer patients and reduce the risk of ablative therapies it is necessary to release a consequent marking of non-palpable cancer suspected breast lesions, a consequent aseptic handling before operation, an intraoperative mammography of the resected area and a frozen section.
11190661	Market structure and performance: evaluating the U.S. health system reform.	First, U.S. health system evolution over the last several years is assessed and found to be in line with what could be anticipated from economic theory. The immature market appears to be giving way to the concentration and the oligopolies of the mature market. This is explained in a manner accessible to non-economists. Next, the performance of market competition as a vehicle for health system reform is assessed in the areas of cost containment, quality of care, access, research/education and social mission. Overall, results have not measured up to promise. Market competition has not succeeded in bringing U.S. health care costs in line with those of other industrialized countries. There is no evidence of sustained quality improvement. Market based reform has not expanded health insurance coverage but has rather, directly or indirectly, increased the number of underinsured and uninsured Americans. Medical research and education have suffered and medicine's social mission has declined. These failures could probably have been anticipated, in advance, had policy makers carefully examined economic theory concerning market evolution. While these are some reasons to be hopeful for market performance in the future there are also potential pitfalls. Non-market oriented policy alternatives for health system reform are worth considering based on the experiences of the states and other countries.
11192069	Vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia: historical aspects and current status.	Vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) is the currently accepted generic designation for the spectrum of vulvar lesions with the histologic features of squamous dysplasia and squamous cell carcinoma in situ. Although several classifications of VIN have been espoused in the past 20 years, VIN can be readily classified into two principal clinicopathologic types: classic (bowenoid) VIN and simplex (differentiated) VIN. This manuscript summarizes the historical development and current status of our knowledge about VIN. Information on the clinical and pathologic aspects are detailed and illustrated, as are considerations of differential diagnosis.
11194078	Cervical screening in England and Wales: its effect has been underestimated.	Opinions about cervical screening in the UK tend to follow one of two negative lines of thought. The first is that cervical cancer is a rare disease, and too much time and effort are spent on screening. The second is that it has been relatively ineffective, since incidence of invasive carcinoma did not fall until the NHS Cervical Screening Programme (NHSCSP) was introduced in 1988, although it fell by 40% since then. This paper presents publicly available data to demonstrate that neither of these views is true. Registrations of invasive carcinoma of the uterine cervix and carcinoma in situ in England and Wales between 1971 and 1996 show that a substantially increased risk of disease in women born since 1940 has been reversed, almost certainly by greatly improved screening. Cervical carcinoma is now a rare disease because most cases are prevented before they become invasive, mostly by screening young women, aged 20-40, before the decade of life when symptomatic cervical carcinoma most frequently presents.
11198750	The management of alcohol-related seizures: an overview.	Alcohol-withdrawal seizures are one of the common medical emergencies. The seizures are generalized and usually occur abruptly between 6-8 hours after cessation of alcohol use (peak 12-24 hours). These patients are often uncooperative and therefore need careful assessment. Lorazepam is the first-line drug for termination and prophylaxis of alcohol-withdrawal seizures.
11214556	[Correlation between myocardial perfusion and coronary angiography]	Determining the severity of coronary heart disease is of great importance to the cardiologist. There is a very good correlation between the severity of coronary heart disease and perfusion abnormalities to the myocardium as determined by radioisotope studies. We present our experience with forty (40) cases of ischemic heart disease diagnosed with sestamibi and its correlation with the obstruction of the coronary arteries by angiography. There is good correlation between the sestamibi findings and the coronary artery angiography obstructions and our findings concur with those published in the literature, which is between 75-85%.
11217967	Polysaccharides of green Arabica and Robusta coffee beans.	Two independent procedures for the quantitative determination of the polysaccharide content of Arabica Caturra (Coffea arabica var. Caturra) and Robusta ROM (Coffea canephora var. ROM) green coffee beans showed that they both contained identical amounts of polysaccharide. Cell wall material (CWM) was prepared from the beans and partial solubilisation of component polysaccharides was effected by sequential extraction with water, 1 M KOH, 0.3% NaClO2, 4 M KOH and 8 M KOH. The monosaccharide compositions of the CWMs were similar, although Arabica beans contained slightly more mannose than Robusta. In the latter, more arabinogalactan was solubilised during preparation of the CWM and the water-soluble fraction of the CWM contained higher amounts of galactomannan than in Arabica. Linkage analysis indicated that the galactomannans possessed unbranched to branched mannose ratios between 14:1 and 30:1 which is higher than previously reported. No major difference in the structural features of the galactomannans between species was found. The arabinogalactans were heterogeneous both with regard to the degree of branching and the degree of polymerisation of their arabinan side-chains. Compared to Arabica, Robusta appeared to contain greater amounts of arabinogalactans with longer side chains. It is concluded that there was no detectable difference between the Arabica and Robusta varieties of this study in their absolute polysaccharide content or in the gross structural features of their galactomannans. Differences were apparent both in the structural features and ease of solubility of the arabinogalactans but a more detailed study of several varieties of Arabica and Robusta will be required to determine whether these differences occur consistently between species.
11233669	[Intestinal parasites in children from the Turiec region in long-term monitoring. How should we proceed with further preventive parasitologic examinations?]	The results of preventive parasitological examinations for intestinal parasites in preschool and school children of the Turiec Region (Central Slovakia) in 1970-1999 are submitted. The study is divided into three cross-sections in the following decades (1970-1979; 1980-1989; 1990-1999). An acute decrease in geohelminths virtually to zero values has been found, as well as a significant decrease in intestinal protozoans. The occurrence of Enterobius vermicularis, despite its significant decrease in the recent decade, remains on a relatively high level. In the conclusion the authors discuss continuation of parasitological field examinations, and, on the basis of their 30-year experience, they submit their recommendations for the simplest and most effective way of such examinations.
11237109	Effect of maternal age, smoking and deprivation on birthweight.	Low birthweight is often used as a health indicator. This paper reports the findings of a cohort study, which were analysed to determine the relationship, if any, between the age of the mother and birthweight given the mother's smoking habits and the level of social deprivation of the mother's place of residence. The data used were extracted from those data routinely collected by the Information and Statistics Division of the National Health Service, Scotland. Information on 178,801 singleton live births occurring between 1992 and 1994 was used in the analysis. The factors considered were those available directly from the official records. The level of social deprivation was measured using Carstairs index based on the postcode sector. Although younger and older mothers have lighter babies, on average, it was found that this effect can be largely explained by differences in the smoking habits and level of deprivation of the mothers. Birthweight, adjusted for gestational age, sex of the baby and parity of the mother, was significantly lower for babies born to mothers who smoked during pregnancy. It is clear, however, that the detrimental effect of smoking increases with the age of the mother. Although adjusted birthweight was lower for those in areas of high deprivation, this effect is small compared with the effect of smoking. Any attempt to decrease the percentage of low-birthweight babies must focus on reducing the percentage of mothers who smoke.
11253388	[Increasing selectivity of defense behavior during development of pied flycatcher nestlings]	The development of defense reaction was studied in the wildlife and experimentally in 7 broods of altricial pied flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) nestlings. Field studies demonstrated that passive-defense response first appeared on the 4th day of the nest life. It developed from the cessation of begging in young relatively satiated nestlings to characteristic freezing response independent of the level of feeding motivation in older nestlings. Older nestlings also acquire the defense reaction in response to novel visual stimuli. The efficiency of the natural stimulus for defense behavior (species-specific alarm call) nongradually changes during the nest life attaining the 100% level only on the 11th posthatching day. During the initial phase of defense behavior development, the reaction can be induced by different rhythmically organized stimuli. Later it becomes considerably more selective and other rhythmic and acoustic signals become much less effective than the alarm call.
11257781	[Anthropometric study on normal human auricle in Japan]	OBJECTIVE: Japanese people are physically larger and live longer than in the past. In light of these changes, we studied anthropometric auricular morphology in Japanese people in all age groups. METHODS: Subjects were 1,958 healthy Japanese people with no ear disease, 966 males aged 0-94 years and 992 females aged 0-99 years. They were classified at 5-year intervals into 18 age groups, and each group consisted of 50-72 persons. Bilateral size of auricles (ear length, ear width, length of ear attachment, auricular cartilage length, and auricular lobe length) were measured in the usual manner. All measurements were made with calipers by a single observer. RESULTS: Larger values were obtained in males than in females in almost all age groups. Rapid growth was observed until late teenage, and significant growth continued thereafter until advanced age. Auricular size was found to be greater than that in Japanese people in the past. CONCLUSIONS: In addition to changes in auricular size believed attributable to growth until late teenage, age-associated changes appear to continue during adulthood.
11260403	Effect of acidosis on urine supersaturation and stone formation in genetic hypercalciuric stone-forming rats.	BACKGROUND: We have successively inbred over 45 generations a strain of rats to maximize urine calcium excretion. The rats now consistently excrete 8 to 10 times as much calcium as controls and uniformly form poorly crystalline calcium phosphate kidney stones. In humans with calcium nephrolithiasis, consumption of a diet high in acid precursors is often cited as a risk factor for the development of calcium-based kidney stones; however, the effect of this diet on urinary supersaturation with respect to the common solid phases found in kidney stones has not been determined. METHODS: To determine the effect of the addition of an acid precursor on urine ion excretion, supersaturation, and stone formation, we fed these genetic hypercalciuric stone-forming (GHS) rats 13 g/day of a 1.2% calcium diet with 0.0, 0.5, 1.0, or 1.5% NH4Cl in the drinking water for 14 weeks (N = 8 for each). Urine was collected and analyzed every two weeks. RESULTS: As expected, the addition of dietary NH4Cl led to a progressive fall in urine pH and urine citrate, while urine ammonium increased. Urine calcium and phosphorus increased, while urine oxalate fell. Increasing dietary NH4Cl led to a fall in supersaturation with respect to CaHPO4 (brushite) and CaOx and a rise in supersaturation with respect to uric acid. In spite of differences in supersaturation, most rats in each group formed stones that contained calcium phosphate and not calcium oxalate. CONCLUSIONS: Thus, while the provision of additional dietary acids alters urinary ion excretion and lowers supersaturation with respect to CaHPO4 and CaOx, it does not change the character or rate of stone formation in the GHS rats.
11260659	The effects of 860 MHz radiofrequency radiation on the induction or promotion of brain tumors and other neoplasms in rats.	Sprague-Dawley rats were irradiated with a continuous- wave (CW) or a pulsed-wave (P) radiofrequency (RF) for 6 h/day, 5 days/week from 2 up to 24 months of age. The RFs emanated from dipole antennas (1 W average output) 2.0 +/- 0.5 cm from the tip of each rat's nose. The RFs had an 860 MHz frequency, and the specific absorption rate was 1.0 W/ kg averaged over the brain. Fifteen groups of 60 rats (900 total) were formed from offspring of females injected i.v. with 0 (groups 1, 2, 9, 10, 13), 2.5 (groups 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 14) or 10 mg/kg (groups 3, 4, 15) ethylnitrosourea (ENU) to induce brain tumors. Groups 1, 3, 5 and 7 received the PRF, and groups 9 and 11 the CWRF; groups 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 were sham-irradiated, and groups 13-15 were cage controls. All rats but 2, totaling 898, were necropsied, and major tissues were studied histopathologically. There was no statistically significant evidence that the PRF or CWRF induced neoplasia in any tissues. Additionally, there was no significant evidence of promotion of cranial or spinal nerve or spinal cord tumors. The PRF or CWRF had no statistically significant effect on the number, volume, location, multiplicity, histological type, malignancy or fatality of brain tumors. There was a trend for the group that received a high dose of ENU and was exposed to the PRF to develop fatal brain tumors at a higher rate than its sham group; however, the result was not significant using the log-rank test (P = 0.14, 2-tailed). No statistically significant differences were related to the PRF or CWRF compared to controls in the low- or zero-dose groups regarding tumors of any kind.
11260850	Don't keep women waiting on a diagnosis.	In December 1999, the administration at Grant/Riverside Methodist Hospitals in Columbus, OH, launched a benchmark study to determine how long it took for a woman diagnosed with a breast abnormality to find out if she had breast cancer. It was determined that it took an average of 27 days, better than the national average of 42 days, but far below the gold-standard programs around the country that took 24 hours to five working days. To remedy the situation, Patti Dunn, RN, BSN, OCN, was asked to oversee the process and create a system that coordinated care across the continuum to better meet the needs of women with breast health problems.
11268448	Results of fast neutron therapy of adenoid cystic carcinoma of the salivary glands.	BACKGROUND: Adenoid cystic carcinomas (ACC) seem to have a better response to fast neutron irradiation than to photon beam therapy because of the higher relative biological effectiveness of neutron radiation. METHODS: Between 1986 and 1995, 72 patients with ACC of the salivary glands were treated in Mnster with fast neutrons. The median age was 54 years. All the patients had either recurrent or macroscopic rest tumor prior to neutron therapy. The median total dose was 15.03 Gy. Median follow-up was 50 months. RESULTS: 39.1% of the patients achieved a complete remission and 48.6% a partial remission. The survival probability was 86% after one year, 73% after two years and 53% after five years. The recurrence-free survival was 83% after one year, 71% after two years and 45% after five years. CONCLUSION: Neutron beam therapy seems to have been an effective treatment in these selected patients.
11294326	Substance abuse by medical students and doctors.	The doctors are vulnerable to substance abuse/addiction due to their ready accessibility to the substances of abuse. There is higher percentage use of alcohol, tranquillisers and psychedelics among medical students, and dependence rates are 5% for medical students and 3% for doctors. Majority of the substance-abusing doctors are graduates, belong to medicine speciality (21%) and majority of them prescribe drugs to themselves (37%). The consultants experience more substance related complications, despite having late age of onset of alcohol and substance dependence, less number of concomitant substance abuse and less career handicap. Stress (situational, personal and professional), medical student abuse and family history of alcoholism are the major risk factors. Despite paucity of studies in Indian population, substance use is reported between 32.5% to as high as 81.2% among medical students, intems and house physicians. In spite of the treatment dilemmas, the physicians do respond favourably to treatment. These findings have implications in planning preventive and interventional strategies for this professional group.
11294962	Serum IgA tissue transglutaminase antibodies in coeliac disease and other gastrointestinal diseases.	We investigated the presence of IgA anti-tissue transglutaminase (tTG) antibodies in untreated coeliac disease (CD) and other gastrointestinal diseases, and compared IgA tTG concentrations with anti-endomysium (EMA) immunofluorescent findings. The study included 116 untreated CD patients (74 female, 42 male, age range 15-78 years, median 47 years), 82 treated CD patients, 65 patients with normal duodenal histology, 260 disease control samples and 29 healthy volunteers. IgA anti-tTG, EMA, and anti-gliadin (AGA) antibodies were measured. Serum total IgA was measured in the CD patients. Two IgA-deficient untreated CD patients were excluded. IgA EMA and IgA AGA were positive in 99 (87%) and 69 (61%), respectively, of the 114 untreated CD patients. Elevated IgA anti-tTG were found in 92/114 (81%) untreated coeliacs, 1/82 (1%) treated coeliacs, 2/65 (3%) non-coeliacs, 10/260 (4%) disease controls and 2/29 (7%) volunteers. Four of the untreated CD patients, with a normal serum total IgA concentration, were negative for all the serological tests. IgA anti-tTG concentrations were significantly higher in untreated coeliacs (median 10200 units/ml) than in other groups (Mann-Whitney, p&lt;0.00001) and compared well with IgA EMA titres (r(2)=0.54; p&lt;0.0001).
11301538	Rapid identification of tissue micro-organisms in skin biopsy specimens from domestic animals using polyclonal BCG antibody.	Immunostaining with polyclonal anti-Mycobacterium bovis (BCG) was evaluated as a single screening method for the histological identification of micro-organisms in skin biopsy specimens from various veterinary species. Confirmed archival cases infected with Mycobacteria, Nocardia, Actinobacillus, Actinomyces, Streptococcus/Staphylococcus, Dermatophilus, spirochetes, Blastomyces, Coccidioides, Cryptococcus, Histoplasma, dermatophytes, Malassezia, Sporothrix, Leishmania, Pythium, phaeohyphomycetes and Prototheca organisms were selected. A total of 70 skin biopsy specimens from the dog, cat, horse, ox and llama were evaluated. The anti-BCG immunostain labelled bacteria and fungi with high sensitivity and minimal background staining but did not label spirochetes and protozoa (Leishmania). Differences were not noted between veterinary species. The results indicate that immunostaining with polyclonal anti-BCG is a suitable screening technique for the rapid identification of most common bacterial and fungal organisms in paraffin-embedded specimens. Also, mycobacterial and nocardial organisms were identified more readily with the anti-BCG immunostain in comparison to the histochemical stains.
11302302	Recurrent Legg-Calv-Perthes disease: case report and long-term followup.	This is the seventh reported case of recurrent Legg-Calv-Perthes disease. The report documents the initial onset in a boy 4 years of age with healing clinically and radiographically. The boy experienced recurrence of disease at 8 years of age with last followup at 20 years of age. Tests related to blood hypercoagulability and hypofibrinolysis and certain genetic factors relevant to osteonecrosis of the bone are reported.
11306533	Assessment of myocardial postreperfusion viability by intravenous myocardial contrast echocardiography: analysis of the intensity and texture of opacification.	BACKGROUND: Although defects on intracoronary myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) indicate loss of viability after reperfusion, opacified segments may also exhibit persistent dyssynergy. Therefore, we related the intensity and texture of opacification produced by an intravenous contrast agent to histological findings to determine the characteristics of necrotic tissue by postreperfusion MCE. METHODS AND RESULTS: MCE was performed by intravenous injection of 0.15 mL/kg QW7437 in 14 dogs who underwent 3-hour coronary occlusion followed by 3-hour reperfusion. At baseline and 3 hours after reperfusion, midventricular short-axis images were digitized and segmented. Infarction fraction (IF) for each segment was determined by triphenyltetrazolium chloride stain. Of 224 segments, 140 showed no or small infarction and served as a control group. Of 84 segments with significant infarction (IF>30%), 52 exhibited a defect on MCE, and 32 exhibited no defect. Echo texture was quantified by computing entropy based on the co-occurrence matrix analysis of gray-level pairs within each segment. Three hours after reperfusion, average and maximal entropies in the infarct segments without opacification defects were significantly higher than control levels. Histologically, the degree of intracapillary erythrocyte stasis was less in this group than in the infarcted segments with MCE defects with similar magnitude of tissue injuries. CONCLUSIONS: Opacification defects by MCE may be present or absent in myocardium with histologically confirmed infarction. The texture of MCE from opacified but infarcted myocardium differed significantly from control segments and may assist in determination of segmental viability after reperfusion.
11309051	Pattern of ambulatory pharyngo-oesophageal motility and pH-metry in healthy volunteers.	Oesophago-pharyngeal reflux is widely accepted as an aetiological factor in many laryngeal and lower respiratory tract diseases. This study aims to establish normal reference ranges for pharyngo-oesophageal pH and pressure. Twenty-five asymptomatic healthy volunteers underwent ambulatory pharyngo-oesophageal pressure and pH-metry. Acid exposure times were very low. Only one subject showed any evidence of oesophago-pharyngeal reflux during recumbency. Two distinct upper oesophageal sphincter pressure patterns were observed during recumbency-one with episodic dry swallows and moderate tonic pressures, the other with almost complete manometric quiescence. Negative results, i.e. the exclusion of abnormal cervical reflux, appear to be more achievable than quantifiable positive results, but this is not absolutely clear from our results. Categorisation of an individual as having abnormal upper pH-metry requires use of a synchronous pharyngeal probe. pH-metry is likely to be of value in establishing the role of reflux in relation to laryngeal or respiratory disease.
11309696	Diagnostic advances in defining erythropoietic abnormalities and red blood cell diseases.	The majority of clinical applications of flow cytometry begin with various approaches to remove red blood cells (RBCs) from the clinical sample. However, multiparameter cytometry has and will continue to contribute much to the understanding of the pathophysiology and diagnostic accuracy in the clinical evaluation of human diseases affecting erythroid cells. This review summarizes the diagnostic advances relating to erythroid cells in the areas of immunohematology, laboratory hematology, and infectious disease with particular emphasis on medical evaluation of the anemic patient and fetomaternal hemorrhage. Semin Hematol 38:148-159.
11315556	Motor adaptation to an optical illusion.	This research investigated the effects of an orientation illusion on action, as well as the ability of the motor system to adapt to the illusion. Subjects reached out and picked up a small bar placed at various orientations. A background grating was used to induce an orientation illusion. When the direction of the illusion was reversed, the following seven trials revealed a large illusion effect in the early portion of the reach. In the subsequent seven trials, no effect of the illusion was present. This pattern of adaptation was similar to the pattern often obtained with displacing prisms, suggesting that the two types of visual distortions present the motor system with similar challenges that it meets in similar ways. These findings are consistent with a planning/control model that argues for separate visual representations underlying the planning and on-line control of reaching.
11320845	In vitro evaluation of a malleus head to stapes head 'incus replica' prosthesis.	An ossicular prosthesis produced by making a mould from a cadaveric incus and injecting ionomeric cement into it (incus replica prosthesis, IRP) has been cemented to the malleus head and stapes head and evaluated in fresh human temporal bones using a laser vibrometer. Stapes velocity was recorded under acoustic stimulation and foot plate displacements were derived. Fourteen frequencies between 125 Hz and 8000 Hz have been used. Measurements were made with the ossicular chain intact, following removal of the incus, with the prosthesis cemented to the malleus, but not the stapes, and with the incudo-stapedial joint cemented. In a second series of experiments the performance of the IRP was compared with that of a Causse partial ossicular replacement prosthesis, using the same experimental set-up. The results indicate that the prosthesis performs almost as well as the intact ossicular chain and that cementing the incudo-stapedial joint gives better sound transmission than leaving it uncemented. In addition the IRP outperforms the conventional partial ossicular replacement prosthesis.
11330746	Constrictive pericarditis associated with Marlex mesh. Two case reports.	Two patients were referred to our hospital with constrictive pericarditis approximately 1 year after undergoing mitral valve repair at another institution. Both repairs had included the use of a pericardial substitute, Marlex mesh, to prevent adhesion and to facilitate possible reoperations. Computed tomography and cardiac catheterization were used to establish the diagnosis of constrictive pericarditis. During surgery, dense, thickened fibrous tissue, the result of a Marlex mesh-related reaction, was found tightly adhered to the epicardium in each of the patients. It appeared that the Marlex mesh, which had been inserted to facilitate reoperation, had contributed to the development of constrictive pericarditis.
11330823	An essential role of active site arginine residue in iodide binding and histidine residue in electron transfer for iodide oxidation by horseradish peroxidase.	The objective of the present study is to delineate the role of active site arginine and histidine residues of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in controlling iodide oxidation using chemical modification technique. The arginine specific reagent, phenylglyoxal (PGO) irreversibly blocks iodide oxidation following pseudofirst order kinetics with second order rate constant of 25.12 min(-1) M(-1). Radiolabelled PGO incorporation studies indicate an essential role of a single arginine residue in enzyme inactivation. The enzyme can be protected both by iodide and an aromatic donor such as guaiacol. Moreover, guaiacol-protected enzyme can oxidise iodide and iodide-protected enzyme can oxidise guaiacol suggesting the regulatory role of the same active site arginine residue in both iodide and guaiacol binding. The protection constant (Kp) for iodide and guaiacol are 500 and 10 microM respectively indicating higher affinity of guaiacol than iodide at this site. Donor binding studies indicate that guaiacol competitively inhibits iodide binding suggesting their interaction at the same binding site. Arginine-modified enzyme shows significant loss of iodide binding as shown by increased Kd value to 571 mM from the native enzyme (Kd = 150 mM). Although arginine-modified enzyme reacts with H2O2 to form compound II presumably at a slow rate, the latter is not reduced by iodide presumably due to low affinity binding. The role of the active site histidine residue in iodide oxidation was also studied after disubstitution reaction of the histidine imidazole nitrogens with diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC), a histidine specific reagent. DEPC blocks iodide oxidation following pseudofirst order kinetics with second order rate constant of 0.66 min(-1) M(-1). Both the nitrogens (delta, epsilon) of histidine imidazole were modified as evidenced by the characteristic peak at 222 nm. The enzyme is not protected by iodide suggesting that imidazolium ion is not involved in iodide binding. Moreover, DEPC-modified enzyme binds iodide similar to the native enzyme. However, the modified enzyme does not form compound II but forms compound I only with higher concentration of H2O2 suggesting the catalytic role of this histidine in the formation and autoreduction of compound I. Interestingly, compound I thus formed is not reduced by iodide indicating block of electron transport from the donor to the compound I. We suggest that an active site arginine residue regulates iodide binding while the histidine residue controls the electron transfer to the heme ferryl group during oxidation.
11339983	Standardization of non-aggregated data: theory and practice.	Direct standardization of rates is a classical method in epidemiology by which the relationship between confounders and variables of analysis is balanced between the samples or populations to be compared. While the method is appropriate if single variables of aggregated data sets are to be compared, it is limited with respect to handling many variables of different measurement scale, especially in primary data situations. Therefore the method of direct standardization is adapted to the analysis of non-aggregated data. Computation of not only rates but other statistics of central tendency and dispersion as well as confidence intervals hence becomes feasible. In addition it is possible to re-adjust the primary data weights in order to perform stratified analyses. A procedure to do so, based solely on the available original weights without the need for analyzing the standard population is proposed along with an extensive SAS macro. The utility allows for the rapid and standardized analysis and tabulation of large multi-variable data sets. Both the statistical and technical properties of the macro are discussed and its usage is explained as well as exemplified.
11342311	Second lethal events associated with treatment for Hodgkin's disease: a review of 2980 patients treated in a single Mexican institute.	Presence of second neoplasms and cardiac toxicity has been recognized as potential late lethal second events in patients treated for Hodgkin's disease. However, most reports analyze these association independently. We reviewed 2980 cases of patients treated during 1970-1995 with long-term follow-up (> 4 years) in an attempt to identify all late events in Hodgkin's disease secondary to the treatment or those which are unrelated. Three hundred and ten patients died, and of these 156 were secondary to relapse and tumor progression. Death associated second tumors and cardiac events were increased 37 fold and 29 fold respectively compared to the general population. The risk factors for this complications did not differ to previous reports and included alkylating agents and/or radiotherapy for second neoplasms and anthracycline therapy and radiotherapy for cardiac toxicity. Moreover, 61 patients died secondary to non-related events. Nevertheless, at 20-years overall survival was 90 % (95 % confidence interval (CI): 78 % to 97 %) and event free survival was 88 % (95 % CI: 76 % to 96 %) for these patients. Thus, second events, fatal in most cases, should be considered as an expected risk to the treatment in patients with Hodgkin's disease; the proposed modifications of therapy may indeed be useful to avoid or diminish these complications in the future.
11344615	A unique case of metastatic penile basal cell carcinoma.	Basal cell carcinoma rarely arises in the penis and metastasizes infrequently. This article presents probably the first case report of a metastatic penile basal cell carcinoma.
11350590	Fracture strength of four different types of anterior 3-unit bridges after thermo-mechanical fatigue in the dual-axis chewing simulator.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the fracture strength of four different types of anterior 3-unit bridges after thermo-mechanical fatigue in a dual-axis chewing simulator. Sixty-four human maxillary incisors were prepared and 32 bridges fabricated. The four groups of eight bridges each were - (GC): AGC(R) galvano-ceramic bridges (CA): Celay(R) In-Ceram(R) Alumina bridges (E2): heat-pressed lithium disilicate glass-ceramic bridges and (CM) ceramo-metal (control). Fracture loads were recorded after a dual-axis chewing simulator and in a universal testing machine. The survival rate after 5 years for the CM and the GC groups was 100%, for the E2 group 75% and for the CA group 37.5% (Kaplan-Mayer analysis). The mean fracture strengths (N) were 681.52 +/- 151.90 (CM); 397.71 +/- 59.02 (GC); 292.92 +/- 46.45 (E2) and 239.95 +/- 33.39 (CA), respectively. The log-rank test showed a significant difference between the CA and the GC or the CA and the CM groups. No significant differences between the E2 and the CA or the E2 and the GC groups were found. The study indicates that heat-pressed lithium disilicate glass-ceramic and AGC(R) galvano-ceramic bridges are alternatives to ceramo-metal 3-unit anterior bridges.
11359094	Mastoid condition and clinical course of cholesteatoma.	This study was carried out to establish which type of cholesteatoma is controllable by conservative treatment from the viewpoint of mastoid ventilation. We examined the area of the air cell system and airspace (aeration) in the mastoid cavity by computed tomography and eustachian tube (ET) function by inflation-deflation test in 20 ears (20 patients) with severe attic retraction for over 12 months (retraction pocket group), 16 ears (16 patients) with cholesteatoma which could be controlled only by conservative treatment for over 12 months (nonsurgical group) and 43 ears (43 patients) which required surgery within a year in spite of similar conservative treatment (surgical group). The size of the mastoid air cell system in the retraction pocket group, nonsurgical group and surgical group was 2.9 +/- 1.3, 1.9 +/- 0.7 and 1.5 +/- 0.9 cm(2) on average, respectively, with no significant difference between both cholesteatoma groups (nonsurgical and surgical group). While aeration was observed in the mastoid in 17 of 20 ears (85.%) in the retraction pocket group and in 12 of 16 ears (75.0%) in the nonsurgical group, aeration was present only in 9 of 43 ears (26.5%) in the surgical group, being significantly less in the surgical group than in the nonsurgical group and the retraction pocket group. In all ears in the retraction pocket and nonsurgical groups, and 19 of 30 ears in the surgical group, ET function was poor, there being no significant difference among the three groups. The present clinical observations suggest that progressiveness of cholesteatoma could be related to the ventilatory conditions in the mastoid rather than ET function, and that conservative treatment may be effective when ears with cholesteatoma have aeration in the mastoid.
11369380	Transient intraocular pressure elevation after trabeculotomy and its occurrence with phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation.	PURPOSE: To elucidate the characterization of intraocular pressure (IOP) spike after trabeculotomy, and after the combined procedure of phacoemulsification and aspiration (PEA) and intraocular lens (IOL) implantation. METHODS: Included in this study were 39 patients (53 eyes) with primary open-angle glaucoma with IOPs uncontrolled even with anti-glaucoma medication. We conducted a retrospective study for the following two groups: Patients who underwent trabeculotomy alone (25 eyes) and patients undergoing trabeculotomy combined with PEA and implantation of an IOL (28 eyes). RESULTS: In 7 (28%) of the 25 eyes after trabeculotomy alone and 7 (25%) of the 28 eyes after the combined procedure, transient IOP elevation was found postoperatively. The incidence of hyphema-related IOP spike was significantly higher in eyes after trabeculotomy alone (16%) than after the combined procedure (0%). After removal of the blood present in the anterior chamber in eyes with hyphema-related IOP spikes, the IOP levels were well controlled. CONCLUSIONS: Hyphema-related IOP spike is one of the common complications in eyes after trabeculotomy alone, and the combined procedure decreases the incidence of this complication. It is thought that removal of prolonged massive hyphema is effective as treatment for hyphema-related IOP spike.
11380270	Heart stopper genes: would you recognize a high risk patient?	Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the leading causes of death in the United States. Eighty percent of people having heart attacks have normal cholesterol levels. A quarter of the population have a condition called low-density lipoprotein (LDL) pattern B that has been associated with a threefold risk of myocardial infarction. Although early intervention can often prevent an otherwise fatal event, these patients often go unrecognized until after a myocardial infarction has occurred because they may not have the usual risk factors associated with cardiovascular disease. In patients with LDL pattern B, the standard lipid panel may be normal and inadequate for diagnosis and treatment of the condition. This article discusses how to identify a potentially high risk patient, available laboratory tests, management options, and the role of nurses in identifying high risk patients. The second author tells his personal story of surviving multiple cardiac arrests at a young age before being diagnosed with this condition.
11396880	Preparation of EVAL membranes with smooth and particulate morphologies for neuronal culture.	In this work, the in vitro interaction of cerebellar granule neurons prepared from 7-day-old Wistar rats and poly ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol (EVAL) membranes was investigated. Cells were cultured in smooth and particulate EVAL membranes for up to 7 days. Particulate membranes were prepared by using 1-octanol to precipitate EVAL solutions in DMSO. Such a membrane was microporous characterized by a packed bed of particles. Voids left between the aggregated particles formed a continuous and interconnected porous network. Crystallization of the EVAL polymer induced by 1-octanol is responsible for the formation of particulate morphology. The membrane structure and its relationship with cells were examined by scanning electron microscopy and the MTT assay. It was observed that the particulate membrane was more favorable for the neuron culture than the smooth membrane. Neurons seeded on the particulate membrane were able to regenerate with formation of an extensive neuritic network. Therefore, the particulate structure may spatially mediate cellular response that can promote neuronal cell attachment, differentiation and neuritic growth, indicating that the particulate structure should be useful as a new polymer scaffold for nerve repair.
11399684	Cigarette smoking and the risk of pulmonary metastasis from breast cancer.	STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine whether there is an association between cigarette smoking and the development of pulmonary metastatic disease among women with breast cancer. DESIGN: A case-control study. SETTING: The University of California, Davis Medical Center. PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-seven women patients with unilateral, invasive breast cancer and pulmonary metastatic disease were identified as cases, and each patient was matched with two control patients who did not have pulmonary metastatic disease. Case patients and control patients were matched for year of diagnosis, age at diagnosis, size of primary tumor, and nodal status. DATA ANALYSIS: Multivariate analysis using conditional logistic regression was used to determine the odds of smoking among women with pulmonary metastatic disease compared to matched control patients without pulmonary metastatic disease, after correction for potential confounding factors. RESULTS: Thirty-eight percent of the case patients vs 29% of the control patients were classified as ever-smokers; 24.1% of case patients were actively smoking at the time of breast cancer diagnosis vs 15.3% of the control patients. The unadjusted odds ratio for active smoking was 1.76 for women with pulmonary metastatic disease compared to women without pulmonary metastatic disease (p = 0.06). In the final multivariate model, the odds ratio for active smoking among women with pulmonary metastatic disease was 1.96 (p = 0.06). CONCLUSIONS: There appears to be an association between cigarette smoking and the development of pulmonary metastatic disease among women with breast cancer. This may explain the previously noted higher breast cancer fatality rate among smokers. The relationship between smoking behavior and pulmonary metastasis from breast and other cancers warrants further investigation.
11411747	Arterial pressure control at the onset of type I diabetes: the role of nitric oxide and the renin-angiotensin system.	Little is known about how hyperglycemia in diabetes directly affects renal and cardiovascular function. Therefore, we modified the streptozotocin-model of Type I diabetes in rats to enable chronic cardiovascular study at the earliest stages of diabetes, before there was time for development of vascular structural changes. We showed that the onset of diabetic hyperglycemia increased total peripheral resistance, decreased skeletal muscle blood flow, increased thromboxane production, and caused a transient increase in plasma renin activity (PRA). Mean arterial pressure (MAP) also increased, but the amplitude was modest. Moreover, we measured significant increases in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal plasma flow, and also showed that endothelially mediated vasodilation in skeletal muscle was not impaired. We then tested the hypothesis that nitric oxide (NO) was playing an important role in counteracting a pressor response to the onset of diabetes. Our results showed that induction of diabetes in rats with chronic NO synthase inhibition caused a marked and progressive increase in MAP. In addition, PRA increased progressively under those conditions and the increase in GFR was prevented. This suggests that NO may work to keep arterial pressure in control at the onset of hyperglycemia very early in the development of diabetes, possibly by facilitating renal vasodilation and by suppressing activity of the renin-angiotensin system. However, the mechanisms for these interactions and the role of renal vascular resistance and other factors in mediating the hypertensive response remain unknown.
11418484	Intravenous injection of apoptotic leukocytes enhances bone marrow engraftment across major histocompatibility barriers.	Cross-tolerization of T lymphocytes after apoptotic cell uptake by dendritic cells may be involved in self-tolerance maintenance. Furthermore, immunosuppressive properties are attributed to apoptotic cells. This study evaluated the consequences of apoptotic leukocyte administration in a restrictive engraftment model of murine bone marrow (BM) transplantation. Sublethally irradiated recipients received a limited number of allogeneic BM, with or without irradiated apoptotic leukocytes of different origins. No graft-versus-host disease was observed. Whereas only a low proportion of mice receiving BM cells alone engrafted, addition of apoptotic irradiated leukocytes, independently of the origin (donor, recipient, third-party mice, as well as xenogeneic peripheral blood mononuclear cells), significantly enhanced engraftment. Similar results were obtained after infusion of leukocytes rendered apoptotic by UVB irradiation or by anti-Fas monoclonal antibody stimulation, thus confirming the role of apoptotic cells in engraftment facilitation. Overall, these results suggest that apoptotic leukocytes can nonspecifically facilitate allogeneic BM engraftment. Such a simple approach could be of interest in BM transplantation settings involving an important HLA donor/recipient disparity, a T-cell-depleted graft, or reduced conditioning regimen intensity.
11419320	[Flow volume curve evaluation of respiratory function in wolfram-molybdenum miners]	The authors studied respiratory function in workers of wolfram-molybdenum mine where dust contains nearly 75% of silicon dioxide and considerable amounts of metals. The examinees were those with I stage silicosis and with silicosis complicated by chronic obstructive bronchitis. The respiratory disorders appeared most severe in association of the diseases.
11425343	Biochemical, electron microscopic and immunohistological observations of cationic detergent-extracted cells: detection and improved preservation of microextensions and ultramicroextensions.	BACKGROUND: Filopodia, retraction fibers and microvilli, are fragile microextensions of the plasma membrane that are easily damaged by mechanical force during specimen preparation for microscopy. To preserve these structures for electron microscopy glutaraldehyde is generally used, but it often causes antigen masking. By contrast, formaldehyde is generally used for immunofluorescence light microscopy, but few studies have been concerned with the loss of microextensions. RESULTS: We demonstrate in biochemical experiments that cultured cells needed to be kept in 4% formaldehyde for at least 60 min at room temperature or for 20 min at 37 degrees C to irreversibly crosslink most of the polypeptides. Also, fragmentation of fragile microextensions was observed after Triton X-100 extraction depending on concentration and extent of crosslinking. We also report on a novel fixation procedure that includes the cationic detergent dodecyltrimethylammonium chloride (DOTMAC). Treatment of NIH3T3 cells with DOTMAC resulted in complete removal of membrane lipids and in good preservation of the cytoskeleton in microextensions as well as preservation of ultramicroextensions of &lt;0.05 microm in diameter that have not been observed previously unless glutaraldehyde was used. Stress fibers and microextensions of DOTMAC-extracted cells were readily stained with anti-beta-actin antibodies, and antibodies to vinculin and moesin stained focal contacts and microextensions, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Some microextensions were fragmented by the standard Triton X-100 permeabilization method. By contrast, DOTMAC completely extracted membrane lipids while maintaining the cytoskeleton of microextensions. Thus, DOTMAC treatment may provide a valuable new tool for the reliable visualization of previously undetectable or poorly detectable antigens while preserving the actin cytoskeleton of microextensions.
11436443	Career success after flexible training in psychiatry: a survey of former flexible trainees in the Thames regions.	This article outlines the findings of a study which indicate that flexible training in psychiatry was considered adequate to prepare doctors for both full-time and part-time work and that those wishing to work part time had no difficulty in finding jobs after accreditation. However, there was evidence to suggest that part-time consultants experienced more problems and less job satisfaction and that part-time training and working may restrict opportunities for an academic career.
11436992	Asialoglycoprotein receptors on rat dendritic cells: possible roles for binding with Kupffer cells and ingesting virus particles.	Rat dendritic cells selectively bind to Kupffer cells in vitro. The present study aimed to reveal adhesion molecules on dendritic cells and their roles in the host defense system. The in situ binding assay to examine the effects of pretreatment of dendritic cells with various kinds of monosaccharides suggested that N-acetylgalactosamine was necessary for the binding of dendritic cells to Kupffer cells. This binding was also attenuated when dendritic cells were injected into an ex vivo liver perfusion circuit together with N-acetyl-galactosamine. It was further shown that the majority of rat lymph dendritic cells and some interdigitating dendritic cells in the lymph nodes possessed asialoglycoprotein receptors specific for N-acetylgalactosamine/galactose as detected by immunostaining. Lymph dendritic cells could ingest virus particles in vitro, even though these cells showed no phagocytic activity for latex particles. The results indicate that rat dendritic cells possess asialoglycoprotein receptors which are probably utilized to recognize Kupffer cells for their recruitment to the liver and possibly to recognize virus particles prior to phagocytosis.
11446879	Investigation of the extent of gastric metaplasia in the duodenal bulb by using methylene blue staining.	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The existence of gastric metaplasia (GM) of the duodenal mucosa has been considered to be highly related to the recurrence of duodenal ulcers (DU). The aims of this study are to evaluate the usefulness of methylene blue staining in the detection of GM, and to clarify the relationship between GM and the deformity of the duodenal bulb. METHODS: Fifteen patients with healed DU and four patients with symptoms of dyspepsia without evidence of ulcers were enrolled into this endoscopic study. During each endoscopy, methylene blue was sprayed evenly on the duodenal bulb, and biopsies were taken from blue-stained and unstained areas. The existence and extent of GM were assessed histologically and grossly. The correlation between duodenal bulb deformity and the extent of GM was also studied. RESULTS: The mean score of methylene blue non-staining (MBNS) was 0, 1.30 +/- 0.15, and 3.00 +/- 0.00 in group A (non-ulcer patients), group B (patients with healed DU and with normal-shaped bulb) and C (patients with healed DU and with deformed duodenal bulb), respectively; showing significant differences among the groups (P &lt; 0.05 in each). Both the existence and the grading of GM were higher in unstained specimens than in blue-stained specimens (100 vs 16.6%, P &lt; 0.0001 and 3.62 +/- 0.09 vs 0.19 +/- 0.06, P &lt; 0.001, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Methylene blue non-staining can be applied to investigate the existence and extent of GM in the duodenal bulb accurately. The incidence of GM in the duodenal bulb was higher in patients with healed ulcers than in non-ulcer patients. Patients with deformed duodenal bulbs have a higher extent of GM than those without deformed duodenal bulbs.
11448673	Chemoenzymatic synthesis of 2-chloro-4-nitrophenyl beta-maltoheptaoside acceptor-products using glycogen phosphorylase b.	In the present work, we aimed at developing a chemoenzymatic procedure for the synthesis of beta-maltooligosaccharide glycosides. The primer in the enzymatic reaction was 2-chloro-4-nitrophenyl beta-maltoheptaoside (G(7)-CNP), synthesised from beta-cyclodextrin using a convenient chemical method. CNP-maltooligosaccharides of longer chain length, in the range of DP 8-11, were obtained by a transglycosylation reaction using alpha-D-glucopyranosyl-phosphate (G-1-P) as a donor. Detailed enzymological studies revealed that the conversion of G(7)-CNP catalysed by rabbit skeletal muscle glycogen phosphorylase b (EC 2.4.1.1) could be controlled by acarbose and was highly dependent on the conditions of transglycosylation. More than 90% conversion of G(7)-CNP was achieved through a 10:1 donor-acceptor ratio. Tranglycosylation at 37 degrees C for 30 min with 10 U enzyme resulted in G(8-->12)-CNP oligomers in the ratio of 22.8, 26.6, 23.2, 16.5, and 6.8%, respectively. The reaction pattern was investigated using an HPLC system. The preparative scale isolation of G(8-->11)-CNP glycosides was achieved on a semipreparative HPLC column. The productivity of the synthesis was improved by yields up to 70-75%. The structures of the oligomers were confirmed by their chromatographic behaviours and MALDI-TOF MS data.
11451002	Changes in the lower urinary tract in continent women and in women with stress urinary incontinence, according to menopausal status.	The aim of this study was to assess the impact of the postmenopausal period on clinical and urodynamic parameters and on the mobility of the bladder neck in continent women and in women with stress urinary incontinence. Fifty-seven postmenopausal women were studied: 30 were continent and 27 had stress urinary incontinence. They were subdivided according to postmenopausal stage into groups A (&lt;5 years) and B (>5 years). Five years was a good marker to separate those women with mild and severe estrogen deficiency. Fifteen premenopausal incontinent women were selected for bladder neck ultrasound as controls. All underwent history, general physical and gynecologic examinations, LH and FSH determinations, type 1 urine and uroculture, circadian voiding diary, cotton-swab test, bladder neck ultrasound and urodynamic investigations. Analysis of the voiding diaries revealed a higher frequency of daytime micturition in both groups of incontinent patients than in the continent ones. Increased bladder neck mobility was also found, both in the cotton-swab test and an ultrasound, in group A and an ultrasound in the premenopausal incontinent women. Urodynamic investigation showed decreased bladder capacity at the first micturition urge, as well as decreased urinary volume in the group A patients compared to the continent ones. Decreased urethral closure maximum pressure was also found in group B patients in relation to the continent ones. We concluded that the effect of hypoestrogenism, manifested postmenopause, causes changes in the lower urinary tract of women, particularly those who are incontinent.
11459145	Traditional versus WHIM molecular descriptors in QSAR approaches applied to fish toxicity studies.	Quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSAR) were performed on nine congenetic aromatic hydrocarbons. Acute response was evaluated in freshwater fish species. QSAR were built by Hansch's approaches and weighted holistic invariant molecular (WHIM) indices. The prediction power of QSAR from both approaches was evaluated. Single regression analysis derivated by Hansch's approach seem suitable for non-polar compounds. However, for all species, it has not a high predictive power (Q2(LOO)) of the biological activity from only K(ow) as molecular descriptor. Multiple regression analysis obtained from WHIM descriptors showed Q2(LOO) higher than 80%, indicating that molecular descriptors have a prediction power greater than K(ow).
11461402	Control of Rayleigh-Taylor instability by vertical vibration in large aspect ratio containers.	We consider a horizontal heavy fluid layer supported by a light, immiscible one in a wide (as compared to depth) container, which is vertically vibrated intending to counterbalance the Rayleigh-Taylor instability of the flat, rigid-body vibrating state. In the simplest case when the density and viscosity of the lighter fluid are small compared to their counterparts in the heavier fluid, we apply a long wave, weakly nonlinear analysis that yields a generalized Cahn-Hilliard equation for the evolution of the fluid interface. This equation shows that the stabilizing effect of vibration is like that of surface tension, and is used to analyze the linear stability of the flat state, the local bifurcation at the instability threshold and some global existence and stability properties concerning the steady states without dry spots. The analysis is extended to two cases of practical interest. Namely, (a) the viscosity of one of the fluids is much smaller than that of the other one, and (b) the densities and viscosities of both fluids are quite close to each other.
11488020	[Anatomical study and clinical application of long head of triceps muscle for reconstruction of shoulder abduction]	OBJECTIVE: To study the morphological character of long head of triceps muscle for clinical application in reconstruction of shoulder abduction. METHODS: Forty-four upper extremities of fixed human adult cadavers were carefully dissected. The origins and the pedicles of blood vessels and nerves of long head of triceps muscle, as well as the maximum available size of the muscles, were measured. Six cases of clinical application of long head of triceps muscle for reconstruction of shoulder abduction were followed up for 3 to 11 months. RESULTS: The origins in the dorsal side of long head of triceps muscle were muscular and the ventral side were tendinous, which was 7.6 to 13.3 cm in length and 1.6 to 3.4 cm in width. The distance from the origin to the neurovascular pedicle was 5.7 to 11.4 cm. The radial nerve, which innervated the muscles, could be dissected for 2.9 to 11.8 cm in length. The blood supplies to the triceps muscle were from humeral artery (43.2%), 1.0 to 6.0 cm in length and 1.6 to 2.4 mm in diameter, and from humeral profundus artery (45.5%), 1.5 to 4.4 cm in length and 0.9 to 2.4 mm in diameter, if the vessel was separated to the humeral artery, the length was 1.5 to 6.3 cm. The neurovascular pedicles were multiple branched. In the 6 cases of clinical application of the triceps muscles, the operated shoulder could abduct from 5 degrees preoperatively (0 degree to 10 degrees) to 77.3 degrees (50 degrees to 90 degrees) postoperatively. CONCLUSION: In accordance to the anatomical character of the triceps muscles, the long head of triceps muscle is a suitable choice for reconstruction of shoulder abduction with optimistic outcomes.
11499753	Pressure rinsing of coronary stents immediately before implantation reduces inflammation and neointimal hyperplasia.	OBJECTIVES: This study evaluates whether rinsing stents with high pressure immediately before implantation minimizes stent-induced inflammation and neointimal formation. BACKGROUND: Several reports indicate that manual stent manipulation before implantation results in foreign body contamination and increased neointimal hyperplasia. METHODS: A stent-cleaning chamber was developed to rinse stents at a sustained hydrodynamic pressure of 4 atm for 10 s. Commercial pre-mounted stents were examined with different levels of manipulation: 1) untouched stents: no stent manipulation before implantation; 2) handled stents: manual stent re-crimping on the balloon; 3) rinsed stents: pressure-rinsed with the stent-cleaning chamber. In vitro surface analysis was evaluated by scanning electron microscopy. Neointimal hyperplasia and inflammation around stent struts were also assessed in the pig in-stent restenosis model. RESULTS: In vitro analysis revealed fewer contaminants on rinsed stents compared with untouched (p = 0.01) and handled stents (p &lt; 0.001). In vivo, neointimal thickness, neointimal area and vessel percent stenosis were significantly reduced in rinsed, compared with not-rinsed, stents (p = 0.002, p = 0.007, p = 0.008 respectively). In addition, a significant reduction in the inflammatory infiltrate around struts was observed in untouched, compared with handled, stents (p = 0.04) and in rinsed, compared with not-rinsed, stents (p &lt; 0.001). Regression analysis accounting for injury and neointimal thickness showed significant differences in slopes between &quot;handled + not-rinsed&quot; and &quot;handled + rinsed&quot; stents (p = 0.004), and between &quot;untouched + not-rinsed&quot; and &quot;untouched + rinsed stents&quot; (p = 0.037). CONCLUSIONS: Rinsing stents under high pressure immediately before coronary implantation results in less inflammation around struts and thinner neointima at 28 days in this pig model.
11519425	[Current problems of social psychiatry in Ukraine]	Statistical data on mental diseases in Ukraine are presented, main trends of development of social psychiatry are outlined, ways for reformation of the social-and-psychiatric service are submitted.
11530381	[Comparison of 133Xe gas dynamic SPECT and thin-section CT in patients with pulmonary emphysema]	PURPOSE: We assessed 133Xe gas dynamic single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) by comparing washout axial images with thin-section CT (TSCT) in patients with pulmonary emphysema. METHODS: Twenty-three patients were studied. All patients were diagnosed as having pulmonary emphysema on the basis of TSCT. We compared TSCT of upper, middle and lower lung fields with 133Xe gas dynamic SPECT axial images at the corresponding levels during the 3 to 4 minutes of washout phase. If the degree of 133Xe gas retention or TSCT finding of ventral and dorsal parts was not the same, the images were divided into two parts. RESULTS: A total of 174 lesions in 23 cases were examined, but 3 lesions having no retention of 133Xe gas at equilibrium phase were excluded. The results showed that: there were 37 lesions (21.6%) with equivalent severity on both images; there were 42 lesions (24.5%) with more severity on 133Xe gas dynamic SPECT than on TSCT; and there were 92 lesions (53.8%) with more severity on TSCT than on 133Xe gas dynamic SPECT. The severity on 133Xe gas dynamic SPECT and TSCT was not always compatible. One of the reasons for the variable 133Xe gas retention even when the lesion had the same severity on TSCT, may be bronchial stricture which cannot be seen on TSCT. CONCLUSION: By comparison of axial images of 133Xe gas dynamic SPECT with CT images, we could recognize the areas of 133Xe gas retention in detail. Results suggest that 133Xe gas dynamic SPECT can be useful to identify ventilation impairment in pulmonary emphysema.
11538494	Ab initio study of C + H3+ reactions.	The reaction C + H3+ --> CH(+) + H2 is frequently used in models of dense interstellar cloud chemistry with the assumption that it is fast, i.e. there are no potential energy barriers inhibiting it.  Ab initio molecular orbital study of the triplet CH3+ potential energy surface (triplet because the reactant carbon atom is a ground state triplet) supports this hypothesis.  The reaction product is 3 pi CH+; the reaction is to exothermic even though the product is not in its electronic ground state.  No path has been found on the potential energy surface for C + H3+ --> CH2(+) + H reaction.
11541422	[Regularities of carbon monoxide outgassing from two nonmetallic materials at different temperatures]	To investigate the regularity of carbon monoxide outgassing from nonmetallic materials in air tight cabin, two nonmetallic materials was observed. 30-9304 foam plastics and aluminum-plated polyester adhesive film were sealed in airtight glass ampules, and outgassed for 70 days at four different temperatures. The outgassing CO was determined continuously with transform/gas chromatography. Curve fitting and regression were used in data analysis. The results showed that: (1) when temperature was kept constant, the relation between the outgassed CO and outgassing time appeared to be a &quot;s&quot; shaped or exponented curve; (2) at a fixed time the amount of outgassed CO increased with temperature exponentially; (3) the amount of CO outgassed in 12 h at 100 degrees C from the two materials corresponds those for 45 d at 50 degrees C, there is an iso-effect principle for CO outgassing.
11572740	Prevalence, donation practices, and risk assessment of blood donors with hemochromatosis.	CONTEXT: Despite changes in eligibility policies, practical barriers limit blood donations from individuals with hemochromatosis. Increased knowledge of hemochromatosis donor characteristics may help foster further changes that will promote more donations. OBJECTIVES: To estimate the prevalence of donors diagnosed as having hemochromatosis and to compare rates of unreported deferrable risks for transfusion-transmissible viral infections (TTVIs), positive screening test results for TTVIs, and donation patterns between hemochromatosis patient donors and donors reporting no medical conditions necessitating phlebotomy (non-health-related donors). DESIGN: An anonymous mail survey conducted in 1998 as part of the ongoing Retrovirus Epidemiology Donor Study. SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Among a stratified probability sample of 92 581 blood donors from 8 geographically diverse US blood centers, 52 650 (57%) responded. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence of hemochromatosis among blood donors; prevalence of unreported deferrable risks and positive screening test results for TTVIs among hemochromatosis patient donors vs non-health-related donors. RESULTS: One hundred ninety-seven respondents (0.4%) identified themselves as hemochromatosis patients and 50 079 (95.1%) as non-health-related donors. An estimated 0.8% of all donations were from hemochromatosis patients, 45.8% of whom reported that they had donated blood to treat their illness. The proportion of repeat donors was higher in hemochromatosis patients than in non-health-related donors (83.5% vs 76.5%; P =.03). Among repeat donors, 68.7% of hemochromatosis patients reported donating at least 3 times in the past year compared with 49.1% of non-health-related donors (P&lt;.001). The prevalence of unreported deferrable risks for TTVIs was similar in hemochromatosis patients (2.0%) and non-health-related donors(3.1%) as was the overall prevalence of positive screening test results (1.3% of hemochromatosis patients vs 1.6% of non-health-related donors). CONCLUSIONS: Although significant numbers of hemochromatosis patients reported donating blood for therapeutic reasons, our findings suggest that this population does not present a greater risk to blood safety than other donors.
11581492	Architecture of the optic chiasm and the mechanisms that sculpt its development.	At the optic chiasm the two optic nerves fuse, and fibers from each eye cross the midline or turn back and remain uncrossed. Having adopted their pathways the fibers separate to form the two optic tracts. Research into the architecture and development of the chiasm has become an area of increasing interest. Many of its mature features are complex and vary between different animal types. It is probable that numerous factors sculpt its development. The separate ganglion cell classes cross the midline at different locations along the length of the chiasm, reflecting their distinct periods of production as the chiasm develops in a caudo-rostral direction. In some mammals, uncrossed axons are mixed with crossed axons in each hemi-chiasm, whereas in others they remain segregated. These configurations are the product of different developmental mechanisms. The morphology of the chiasm changes significantly during development. Neurons, glia, and the signals they produce play a role in pathway selection. In some animals fiber-fiber interactions are also critical, but only where crossed and uncrossed pathways are mixed in each hemi-chiasm. The importance of the temporal dimension in chiasm development is emphasized by the fact that in some animals uncrossed ganglion cells are generated abnormally early in relation to their retinal location. Furthermore, in albinos, where many cells do not exit the cell cycle at normal times, there are systematic chiasmatic abnormalities in ganglion cell projections.
11585117	The effects of a high-carbohydrate diet on the stress-strain behavior of the periodontal ligament of the distal root of the mandibular first molar in hamsters.	We analyzed stress-strain curves in transverse sections at three different root levels of the cervical, middle, and apical regions of the distal root of the mandibular first molar in hamsters fed a high-carbohydrate (experimental group) or standard (control group) diet for 8 weeks. Each section was loaded in vitro at a rate of 5 mm/min in an extrusive direction. The rupture sites and the structures of birefringent collagen fibers in the periodontal ligament were also analyzed. The maximum shear stress, tangent modulus, and failure strain energy density of the periodontal ligament were significantly greater in the cervical region than in the middle and apical regions in both the control and experimental groups. The maximum shear stress, tangent modulus, and failure strain energy density of the periodontal ligament in the experimental group were significantly lower than those in the control group at the cervical and middle regions. The maximum shear strain was significantly greater in the experimental group than in the control group at the middle and apical regions. Histological sections showed that the periodontal ligament ruptured irregularly in both groups. The collagenous fibers of the ligament in the experimental group appeared to be thinner and less birefringent at the cervical and middle regions of the root. These results suggest that a high-carbohydrate diet differentially affects the collagen fibers in the periodontal ligament as a function of the root level, and that these effects are evident in changes in the mechanical properties of the ligament.
11588122	Despite substantial degradation, 2-arachidonoylglycerol is a potent full efficacy agonist mediating CB(1) receptor-dependent G-protein activation in rat cerebellar membranes.	1. Two endocannabinoids, arachidonoyl ethanolamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) bind and activate G-protein-coupled cannabinoid receptors, but limited data exist on their relative ability to activate G-proteins. 2. Here we assess agonist potency and efficacy of various cannabinoids, including 2-AG, HU-310 (2-arachidonoyl glyceryl ether, a third putative endocannabinoid), HU-313 (another ether analogue of 2-AG), AEA, R-methanandamide (an enzymatically stable analogue of AEA), and CP-55,940 at rat brain CB(1) receptors using agonist-stimulated [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding to cerebellar membranes and whole brain sections. Degradation of endocannabinoids under experimental conditions was monitored by HPLC. 3. To enhance efficacy differences, agonist dose-response curves were generated using increasing GDP concentrations. At 10(-6) M GDP, all compounds, except HU-313, produced full agonists responses approximately 2.5 fold over basal. The superior efficacy of 2-AG over all other compounds became evident by increasing GDP (10(-5) and 10(-4) M). 4. In membrane incubations, 2-AG was degraded by 85% whereas AEA and HU-310 were stable. Pretreatment of membranes with phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride inhibited 2-AG degradation, resulting in 2 fold increase in agonist potency. Such pretreatment had no effect on AEA potency. 5. Responses in brain sections were otherwise consistent with membrane binding data, but 2-AG evoked only a weak signal in brain sections, apparently due to more extensive degradation. 6. These data establish that even under conditions of substantial degradation, 2-AG is a full efficacy agonist, clearly more potent than AEA, in mediating CB(1) receptor-dependent G-protein activity in native membranes.
11592830	Infection of purified nuclei by adeno-associated virus 2.	Adeno-associated virus 2 (AAV), a nonpathogenic human parvovirus, requires co-infection with a helper virus for its optimal replication. Although AAV possesses a broad host range, certain cell types lack the machinery necessary for efficient entry into the cell and intracellular trafficking of AAV into the nucleus, where the viral second-strand DNA synthesis must occur before gene expression. We have demonstrated that in less-permissive mouse fibroblasts, the virus fails to transport to the nucleus due to altered endocytic processing. However, relatively little is known about the intracellular site of viral uncoating and transport of the virion across the nuclear envelope. Here, we provide evidence that AAV can efficiently enter intact nuclei purified from both permissive and less-permissive cell types. Furthermore, entry into the nucleus is time- and temperature-dependent, but is not saturable and seems to occur independently of the nuclear pore complex. We also demonstrate that purified nuclei contain all of the machinery necessary for uncoating and viral second-strand DNA synthesis even in the absence of a helper virus. These studies provide new insights into the basic biology of AAV and may also have implications for the optimal use of AAV vectors in human gene therapy.
11594221	[Limbus transplantation for reconstruction of the ocular surface]	Proliferation of the corneal epithelium originates in undifferentiated, long-lived stem cells that are located in the basal limbal epithelium. Stem cells are important for corneal epithelial regeneration and wound healing. Depletion of stem cells due to accidents as well as malfunctions of stem cells due to inborn or inflammatory diseases result in limbal stem cell deficiency. Limbal deficiency is characterized by conjunctivalization of the cornea with vascularization and opacification. Partial limbal deficiency can be treated by removing ingrown conjunctival epithelium thus allowing normal limbal epithelium to repopulate the cornea. Unilateral limbus-derived stem cell disease requires either limbal autograft transplantation from the healthy partner eye or kerato-limbal allograft transplantation. Several modifications of the latter technique have been performed including large kerato-limbal lamellar grafts and central penetrating kerato-limbal allografts. All homologous procedures render a very high risk of immunological reactions that require long term systemic immunosuppression. The use of amniotic membrane, better pharmacological drugs for immunosuppression and improvements in the HLA-matching of limbal allografts as well as ex vivo expansion of corneal stem cells should allow for better reconstruction of the ocular surface in limbal deficiency.
11596301	[Effects of Tremella polysaccharide on cytoplasmic free calcium concentration in murine splenocytes]	Effects of Tremella polysaccharides (TP) isolated from Tremella fuciformis Berk. on the cytoplasmic free calcium concentration in murine splenocytes were observed using Fura-2, a fluorescence indicator, technique. TP increased the cytoplasmic free calcium concentration of Fura-2-loaded murine splenocytes in a concentration-dependent manner and showed synergetic effect with Con A. No effect was found in the release of intracellular calcium without extracellular calcium. Verapamil (10 micrograms.ml-1), a calcium channel blocker, was shown to inhibit the effect of TP on cytoplasmic free calcium, indicating that TP can affect the influx of extracellular calcium.
11596313	[Determination of adenosine and thymidine in Fritillaria bulbs by dual wavelength ultraviolet spectrophotometry]	A convenient method for the quantitative analysis of adenosine and thymidine in Fritillaria bulbs was developed by means of dual wavelength ultraviolet spectrophotometry. This method has good linear relationship and the interrelated coefficient of standard curve for adenosine and thymidine were all found to be 0.9999. The methanol extracts of four species of Fritillaria have been analyzed with this method. The results show that the the bulbs of four species contain different quantities of adenosine and thymidine, which indicates that the nucleosides may be responsible for the anti-coagulation activity of Fritillaria.
11603452	Neurologic complications of the Novacor left ventricular assist device.	BACKGROUND: The left ventricular assist device (LVAD) is a bridging mechanism for patients with severe heart failure to remain viable until heart transplantation. The rate of cerebral embolism has been reported as high as 47% in some studies but the rate of other neurologic complications in patients with LVADs is not known. METHODS: Retrospective chart review of all patients who had LVADs implanted at our hospital from September 1993 until September 1997. Complications from the time of implantation until heart transplantation or death and functional outcome were assessed. RESULTS: Twenty-three patients had LVADs placed in the four-year period. Of 23 patients, 9 had neurologic complications after placement of the LVAD. These included four strokes, three seizures, and two cases of delirium. The 3 patients with seizures all died from multiorgan failure. All of the patients with strokes received a transplant. One patient with delirium died from multiorgan failure and another received a transplant. The most devastating medical complication was renal failure, which occurred in 7 patients and was associated with 100% mortality. All surviving patients with neurologic complications went on to transplant and good functional outcome. CONCLUSIONS: Neurologic complications are common in patients with LVADs, occurring in 9 out of 23 patients in our series. Seizures are a poor prognostic indicator and were associated with 100% mortality. Strokes did not have a negative impact on outcome. Patients with delirium had a mixed outcome, which reflects the multifactorial nature of delirium. Further study needs to be done to limit the neurologic complications associated with LVADs and further improve outcomes.
11619209	The origins of psychosurgery: Shaw, Burckhardt and Moniz.	The concepts and techniques involved in the origins of psychosurgery during the late nineteenth century are analyzed, particularly in the work of Claye Shaw and Gottlieb Burckhardt. It is shown that their views and therapeutic behaviour were guided by scientific, ethical and social warrants not dissimilar from those of today. The debate that followed their work can thus be considered as a trial run to that elicited by the work of Moniz. This paper focuses on the work of Shaw, Cripps, Tuke and Duncan for, until now, it has not featured in any history of psychosurgery. From the point of view of the history of science, their work is important, for it relates to the debate on brain localization, neuronal circuits and the neurobiological representation of mental illness that took place at the dawn of the twentieth century. Nothing is said on the history of psychosurgery subsequent to the work of Moniz.
11619397	Preparation of ethereal oils (Al-Duhoun) by Ibn Al-Quff (13th century A.D.).	Ibn Al-Quff was born in Damascus. He learned medicine from Ibn Abi Usaibia. Ibn Al-Quff was excelled in medicine as well as in Surgery. He wrote several books, of which was &quot;Al-Qumdah&quot; (The Authority on Surgery). Another book was &quot;Al-Shafi&quot; (The Healer) on medicine. In the book &quot;The Authority on Surgery&quot;, Ibn Al-Quff has devoted a special chapter, on the preparation of ethereal oils, which was commonly known as Al-Duhoun. He has described about 34 different oils together with their medical action.
11685104	Short-term &quot;preconditioning&quot; with inhaled nitric oxide protects rabbit lungs against ischemia-reperfusion injury.	BACKGROUND: Pulmonary edema, owing to an impairment of microvascular barrier function, is an important feature in lung ischemia/reperfusion (IR) injury. Inhalation of nitric oxide (NO) during the period of reperfusion has previously been shown to reduce this leakage response. METHODS: We investigated the impact of short-term (30 min) low-dose (10 ppm) pre-ischemic NO inhalation on IR injury in buffer-perfused rabbit lungs, subsequently undergoing 210 min of warm, anoxic-ventilated ischemia. RESULTS: Far-reaching suppression of the leakage response, reflected by manifold increased capillary filtration coefficients and edema formation, was noted in lungs with pre-ischemic NO administration, corresponding to the beneficial effect of NO inhalation during reperfusion. The effect of NO pre-exposure was not related to vasodilation, because microvascular pressures were unchanged, and was mimicked by pre-ischemic intravascular administration of sodium nitroprusside with subsequent washout of this agent. NO inhalation during reperfusion, but not pre-ischemic, short-term NO administration, provoked a manifold increase in the accumulation of guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) in the perfusate. The cGMP-analogue, 8-Br-cGMP, mimicked the anti-edematous effect of NO when present during reperfusion, but pre-ischemic, short-term administration of 8-Br-cGMP provided only limited protection. The guanylate cyclase-inhibitor, 1H-[1, 2, 4]-Oxadiazolo-[4,3-a]-quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), largely antagonized the beneficial effects of NO inhalation during reperfusion but had only minor influence on the effect of NO pre-exposure. CONCLUSIONS: &quot;Preconditioning&quot; of the lung vasculature with short-term NO administration maintains endothelial integrity in a subsequent ischemia/reperfusion maneuver, with nonvasodilatory and non-cGMP-related mechanisms suggested to be largely responsible. This finding may offer interesting perspectives for donor management in clinical lung transplantation.
11687153	S-adenosyl-L-methionine for alcoholic liver diseases.	BACKGROUND: Alcohol is a major cause of liver disease in the Western world today. S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) acts as a methyl donor for all known biological methylation reactions and participates in the synthesis of glutathione, the main cellular anti-oxidant. Randomised clinical trials have addressed the question whether SAMe has any efficacy in patients with alcoholic liver diseases. OBJECTIVES: The objectives were to assess the efficacy of SAMe on mortality, clinical symptoms, complications, liver biochemistry, and liver histology in patients with alcoholic liver diseases. Adverse events were also analysed. SEARCH STRATEGY: The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, and full text searches were combined. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised clinical trials studying patients with alcoholic liver diseases were included. Interventions encompassed peroral or parenteral administration of SAMe at any dose versus placebo or no intervention. The trials could be double blind, single blind, or unblinded. The trials could be unpublished or published as an article, an abstract, or a letter, and no language limitations were applied. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: All analyses were performed according to the intention-to-treat method. The statistical package (RevMan and MetaView) provided by the Cochrane Collaboration was used. The methodological quality of the randomised clinical trials was evaluated by components of quality and the Jadad-score. MAIN RESULTS: Eight placebo-controlled randomised clinical trials including a heterogeneous sample of 330 patients with alcoholic liver disease were identified. Only one trial including 123 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis used adequate methodology and reported clearly on mortality and liver transplantation. It demonstrated no significant effects of SAMe on mortality (Peto odds ratio (OR) 0.53, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.22 to 1.29), liver related mortality (OR 0.63, 95% CI 0.25 to 1.58), mortality or liver transplantation (OR 0.47; 95% CI 0.20 to 1.09), or patients without complications (OR 0.63, 95% CI 0.30 to 1.31). SAMe was not significantly associated with adverse events (OR 3.95, 95% CI 0.77 to 20.24). REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review could not demonstrate any significant effect of SAMe on mortality, liver related mortality, mortality or liver transplantation, and liver complications of patients with alcoholic liver disease. SAMe should not be used for alcoholic liver disease outside randomised clinical trials.
11699273	[Injuries sustained by bus passengers in the municipality of Odense 1996-1999]	BACKGROUND: Owing to several recent bus-related accidents in Denmark, we wished to investigate injuries sustained by passengers. MATERIALS AND METHODS: From our ongoing registration of patients treated in the casualty department at Odense University Hospital, we identified all residents of Odense Municipality who had sustained injuries as bus passengers from 1996 to 1999. Market analysis and demographic information were used to calculate the incidence and risk. RESULTS: Over this four-year period, 327 consecutive injuries had been sustained by 246 bus passengers, 72 men and 174 women, mean ages 44 and 53 years. The incidence rate was 3.3 injured per 10,000 inhabitants per year, with no increasing tendency during the study period. The risk was 2.2 injured per 1,000,000 bus passengers per year, highest in women and increasing with age. Injuries most frequently occurred when the bus stopped (31%), as passengers were boarding or alighting (23%), or during collision with another vehicle (20%). Most commonly injured areas were the lower (30%) and upper (28%) extremities and the head or neck (27%). Contusions and sprains were the most common injuries (59%). The most common fractures were those of the humerus and hip region. CONCLUSION: Bus passenger injuries are not a growing problem. The incidence increases with age.
11702080	Functional analysis of the Streptomyces lividans type I signal peptidases.	Type I signal peptidases are responsible for the proteolytic cleavage of the signal peptide of secreted proteins. In the gram-positive bacterium Streptomyces lividans, four adjacent genes (sipW, sipX, sipY and sipZ) were isolated encoding putative type I signal peptidases. In this work, the different sip genes were cloned and expressed. Subsequently, the Sip proteins were purified to raise antibodies. Although the four Sip proteins share a low degree of sequence similarity and differ significantly in size and pI, anti-Sip antibodies cross-reacted intensively. Functional signal peptidase processing activity for each of these Sip proteins was shown both in vitro and in vivo. The different Sip proteins did not exhibit the same cleavage efficiency on the Bacillus subtilis pre-chitosanase.
11714325	Chemical composition, nutritive value, and toxicology evaluation of Mexican wild lupins.	The nutrient composition, toxic factors content, and nutritional and toxicological value of Lupinus splendens, L. rotundiflorus, L. elegans, L. simulans, L. exaltatus, L. reflexus, and L. madrensis species from Mexico were analyzed. The seeds of these species were a good source of protein. All the species showed a high lysine and tryptophan content, though sulfur amino acids were limiting. Cyanogenic glycosides were absent, and lectins, trypsin inhibitors, and tannins were present in low concentrations. Lupanine was the major alkaloid in almost all the samples, although sparteine was the major alkaloid in Lupinus reflexus (26.63 mg/g of sample). Cytisine was not found in any of the studied lupins. L. reflexus showed the highest acute toxicity, and L. elegans exhibited no toxicity as evaluated using a mice model. The alkaloid was reduced by hot-water extraction. The protein efficiency ratio in water-debittered seeds was relatively poor (1.1-1.5). These results suggest that the wild lupins studied represent a potential protein supply, and they could be domesticated and used for animal feed if the alkaloids were eliminated and the protein was supplemented with methionine, or if the lupins were used in mixture with cereals.
11724892	Fatal myocarditis associated with acute parvovirus B19 and human herpesvirus 6 coinfection.	We report on the case of a healthy young boy who developed a fulminant myocarditis due to acute coinfection with erythrovirus (parvovirus B19) and human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) in the absence of an antiviral immune response. We suggest that the HHV-6-induced immunosuppression enhanced dissemination of parvovirus B19, which led to fatal myocarditis.
11768448	Community well being and infectious diseases among Alaska Native communities in the Chugach Region.	OBJECTIVES: This study sought to examine how Native people of the Chugach Region of Alaska perceive their own communities' health and well being, particularly in regard to infectious diseases. STUDY DESIGN: Prospective focus group interview survey. METHODS: During September to December 1999, 12 focus groups were conducted in seven communities in the Chugach Region of Alaska with 97 participants. Using a set of eight questions, information gathered provided insights into the participants' health-related perceptions and provided previously nonexistent baseline data pertaining toTB and hepatitis. RESULTS: Participants showed a good working knowledge of common infectious diseases. There were misconceptions and a potential for increased knowledge in highly prevalent diseases, but more recently delineated infections in rural Alaska, e.g., respiratory syncvtial virus (RSV), Helicobacter pylori, and less prevalent diseases, e.g., Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). The participants expressed a desire for further infectious disease information and dialogue. CONCLUSIONS: This process can be used to develop a risk assessment tool for medical and clinical providers' use in an effort to increase testing for such infectious diseases as HIV, TB, Hepatitis C, and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). In this case the authors also produced a STD prevention video for rural Alaska Natives, entitled, Summer Sun Winter Moon.
11771732	Effect of long-term, low-dose acyclovir suppressive therapy on susceptibility to acyclovir and frequency of acyclovir resistance of herpes simplex virus type 2.	We have examined the susceptibility to acyclovir and frequency of acyclovir-resistant viruses in herpes simplex virus type (HSV) 2 clones isolated directly from genital lesions of 11 patients who had taken suppressive therapy (200 mg/day) for 1-9 years and 15 patients naive to acyclovir. Suppressive therapy significantly reduced the incidence of recurrence and the severity of the skin lesions. HSV samples from genital lesions were directly inoculated into Vero cells, and viral clones were isolated in the absence and presence of 10 microg/ml acyclovir. Five-hundred-and-ninety-two clones, isolated in the absence of acyclovir, were subjected to the acyclovir susceptibility test, and 155 clones isolated in the presence of acyclovir were analysed for the mechanisms of resistance to acyclovir. There were no significant differences in the susceptibility to acyclovir, the frequency of acyclovir-resistant virus and the ratio of thymidine kinase-deficient viruses in acyclovir-resistant viruses between the two groups. The frequency of acyclovir-resistant clones was about three per 10000 plaque forming units (PFU), and genital lesions contained up to 3x10(6) PFU of replicating virus in the specimens from the patients with genital herpes with or without acyclovir-suppressive therapy. Thus, the low dose of acyclovir suppressive therapy did not affect the susceptibility to acyclovir or increase the frequency of acyclovir-resistant viruses in the genital lesions.
11771837	Determination of neutral pharmaceuticals in wastewater and rivers by liquid chromatography-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry.	An analytical method is presented enabling the determination of nine neutral pharmaceuticals in groundwater, and for most of the compounds, in rivers and wastewater down to the lower ng/l range. The analytes belong to different medicinal groups such as antiphlogistics, psychiatric drugs and antidiabetics. Samples are enriched using solid-phase extraction (SPE) with RP-C18ec material. Analysis is performed by liquid chromatography with detection by electrospray tandem MS. Mean recoveries generally exceed 80% in groundwater, and the quantification limits are down to 50 ng/l in wastewater and down to 10 ng/l in groundwater. Losses were observed to occur either from ion suppression in the electrospray ionisation or SPE. Losses for all compounds could not be compensated for by the surrogate standard dihydrocarbamazepine. In raw municipal wastewater, concentration levels were detected for caffeine up to 147 microg/l and for propyphenazone up to 1.3 microg/l.
11786292	Performance indicators in women's health: incorporating women's health in the health plan employer data and information set (HEDIS).	The Health plan Employer Data and Information Set (HEDIS) is limited in its scope of women's health-related performance measures. Realizing this, the National Committee for Quality Assurance developed the Women's Health Measurement Advisory Panel (MAP) to expand and develop HEDIS measures to better represent women's health issues. This paper outlines the development of several new women's health-related performance measures and highlights the complexities of creating new measures to assess the quality of care provided to women through our nation's managed care organizations.
11803003	Comparative trial to assess the reactogenicity of the diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis (DTPa) vaccine plus Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) conjugate vaccine and that of the diphtheria-tetanus-whole cell pertussis (DTPw) vaccine plus Hib conjugate vaccine, administered in single injection a.	BACKGROUND: The diphtheria-tetanus-whole-cell pertussis (DTPw) vaccine is being replaced in Western countries,and in several Spanish Autonomous Communities, by the diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis (DTPa) vaccine. Although the administration of booster doses of DTPw or DTPa and Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate (Hib) vaccines to toddlers is a current practice ina number of countries, there are few data comparing the reactogenicity profiles of their administration as a single injection. SUBJECTS AND METHOD: An open,prospective, randomised, multicentre trial was conducted to compare the reactogenicity profile of a single injection of DTPa and Hib vaccines (DTPa/Hib) with that of a single injection of DTPw and Hib vaccines (DTPw/Hib) as booster doses to toddlers--previously primed with DTPw and Hib vaccines. 200 children (15.1 +/-1.0 months-old) were randomised to receive DTPa/Hib (group 1;n = 101) or DTPw/Hib (group 2; n = 99) and followed up to 30 days post-vaccination. All subjects received the oral polio vaccine concomitantly. Local and general symptoms were recorded by parents on diary cards. RESULTS: Incidences of any local reaction and any general symptom &lt;&lt;probably related>>/&lt;&lt;suspected>>to vaccination were reported more frequently in group 2 than in group 1 (p &lt; 0.0001). Pain at the injection site was reported by 29% and 66% of subjects in groups 1 and 2, respectively (p&lt; 0.0001). Pain such that the child cried when limb was moved was also more frequently recorded in group 2 (15%) than in group 1 (1%) (p &lt; 0.0001). Differences in prevalence of any swelling(16% in group 1, 30% in group 2) and swelling > 20 mm reached statistical significance (p (3/4) 0.012). Fever (rectal temperature>= 38 degrees C) was reported by 17% and 41 % in groups 1 and 2 subjects, respectively (p &lt; 0.0001). Fussiness, loss of appetite and restlessness were also more frequently reported in DTPw/Hib subjects and reached statistical significance (at least p = 0.015).Analgesics/antipyretics were prescribed as a prophylactic treatment in only 14% of cases (9 and 19 subjects in groups 1 and 2, respectively;p = 0.0424). Antipyretic treatment after vaccination was significantly more prescribed in group 2 (27 cases) than in group 1 (8) (p &lt;0.015).Conclusion: The administration of DTPa/Hib as a single injection leads to a better reactogenicity profile than the administration of DTPw/Hib, also as a single injection, as booster doses to toddlers primed with DTPw and Hib vaccines.
11804280	Cell cycle regulators (p21, p53, pRb) in oligodendrocytic tumors: a study by novel tumor microarray technique.	Using the novel tissue microarray technique, we studied immunohistochemical expression of cell cycle regulators p53, p21, pRb in 42 grade II oligodendrogliomas, 16 grade III anaplastic oligodendrogliomas, 10 primary and 4 recidive grade II oligoastrocytomas, 10 grade III oligoastrocytomas and 2 other grade II mixed gliomas. The p53 immunopositivity associated with malignant histology of the tumor (p = 0.01, Mann-Whitney test) and high pRb expression (p = 0.015). The p21 score associated strongly with histological grade (p &lt; 0.001). The immunopositive tumors had a significantly higher rate of proliferation (p = 0.021). The p21 immunopositivity correlated positively with p53 immunopositivity: among the 33 p21 immunopositive tumors 30 (91%) were p53 immunopositive and only 3 were p53 immunonegative (p = 0.017). Patients with p21 immunonegative primary tumors had significantly better prognosis: among them 42 of the 46 (91%) survived, whereas only 18 of the 30 patients (60%) with p21 immunopositive primary tumors survived until the follow-up date (p = 0.0017). Statistical significance was reached in multivariate analysis as well (p = 0.01, exp(B) = 5.5). The pRb immunopositive tumors had higher proliferation rate than immunonegative tumors (p = 0.002). In multivariate variance analysis, comparing the effects of different regulatory proteins on cell proliferation, only the amount of pRb expression reached statistical significance (p = 0.004). In conclusion, the expression of p21 in oligodendrocytic tumors seems to be upregulated by p53 expression which rises with cell proliferation and malignancy as in attempt to halt cell cycle but seems to be overrun by other factors. The amount of p21 expression has independent prognostic significance and could be used in diagnosis to help the difficult evaluation of the malignancy potential of oligodendrogliomas and oligoastrocytomas.
11819865	Diagnosis and treatment of congenital choledochal cyst: 20 years' experience in China.	AIM: To summarize the experience of diagnosis and treatment of congenital choledochal cyst in the past 20 years (1980-2000). METHODS: The clinical data of 108 patients admitted from 1980 to 2000 were analyzed retrospectively. RESULTS: Abdominal pain,jaundice and abdominal mass were presented in most child cases. Clinical symptoms in adult cases were non-specific, resulting in delayed diagnosis frequently. Fifty-seven patients (52.7%) had coexistent pancreatiobiliary disease. Carcinoma of the biliary duct occurred in 18 patients (16.6%).Ultrasonic examination was undertaken in 94 cases, ERCP performed in 46 cases and CT in 71 cases. All of the cases were correctly diagnosed before operation. Abnormal pancreatobiliary duct junction was found in 39 patients. Before 1985 the diagnosis and classification of congenital choledochal cyst were established by ultrasonography preoperatively and confirmed during operation, the main procedures were internal drainage by cyst enterostomy. After 1985, the diagnosis was established by ERCP and CT, and cystectomy with Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy was the conventional procedures.In 1994, we reported a new and simplified operative procedure in order to reduce the risk of choledochal cyst malignancy. Postoperative complication was mainly retrograde infection of biliary tract, which could be controlled by the administration of antibiotics, there was no perioperative mortality. CONCLUSION: The concept in diagnosis and treatment of congenital choledochal cyst has obviously been changed greatly.CT and ERCP were of great help in the classification of the disease.Currently, cystectomy with Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy is strongly recommended as the choice for patients with type I and type IV cysts. Piggyback orthotopic liver transplantation is indicated in type V cysts (Caroli's disease) with frequently recurrent cholangitis.
11827114	Seabirds at risk around offshore oil platforms in the north-west Atlantic.	Seabirds aggregate around oil drilling platforms and rigs in above average numbers due to night lighting, flaring, food and other visual cues. Bird mortality has been documented due to impact on the structure, oiling and incineration by the flare. The environmental circumstances for offshore hydrocarbon development in North-west Atlantic are unique because of the harsh climate, cold waters and because enormous seabird concentrations inhabit and move through the Grand Banks in autumn (storm-petrels, Oceanodroma spp), winter (dovekies, Alle alle, murres, Uria spp), spring and summer (shearwaters, Puffinus spp). Many species are planktivorous and attracted to artificial light sources. Most of the seabirds in the region are long-distance migrants, and hydrocarbon development in the North-west Atlantic could affect both regional and global breeding populations. Regulators need to take responsibility for these circumstances. It is essential to implement comprehensive, independent arm's length monitoring of potential avian impacts of offshore hydrocarbon platforms in the North-west Atlantic. This should include quantifying and determining the nature, timing and extent of bird mortality caused by these structures. Based on existing evidence of potential impacts of offshore hydrocarbon platforms on seabirds, it is difficult to understand why this has not been, and is not being, systematically implemented.
11828932	[Biventicular pacing in patients with severe heart failure]	According to initial clinical results biventricular pacing seems to be effective in the treatment of patients suffering from drug refractory severe heart failure combined with intraventricular conduction disturbance. Biventricular cardioverter defibrillators and biventricular pacemakers were implanted in patients suffering from drug refractory severe heart failure in 3 and in 2 cases, respectively (follow up > 6 months). NYHA III-IV functional class, low left ventricular ejection fraction (23.2 +/- 5.4%), wide QRS (> 150 ms) with left bundle branch block and lateral dyssynchrony were present in each case. The left ventricle was enlarged in each patient (end-diastolic/end-systolic diameter: 78.6 +/- 9.2/66.2 +/- 8.1 mm). The indications of cardioverter defibrillator implantations were both sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia combined with syncope in 2 and in 1 case, respectively. The duration of QRS decreased (190 +/- 36 vs. 134 +/- 17 ms, p = 0.012) and wall movement disorder disappeared. At the last follow up every patients were in NYHA II functional class and a decrease in left ventricular diameter could be observed (end-diastolic: 72 +/- 10.4 mm, p = 0.07; end-systolic: 62 +/- 10 mm, p = 0.09). During the follow up period (7.3 +/- 1.7 months) 18 episodes of ventricular arrhythmias could be detected in the same patient. Biventricular pacemakers and cardioverter defibrillators were implanted and applied successfully in the treatment of congestive heart failure for the first time in Hungary. The effect of biventricular pacing on morbidity and mortality, the cost-effectiveness, the exact indication and the combined use with cardioverter defibrillator have yet to be proven in future randomized trials.
11836573	Low sex steroid environment affects survival and steroid secretion of ovarian tumour cells in primary cultures.	Ovarian epithelial tumours are considered to be endocrine related. The effects of an environment with low levels of the steroid hormones 17 beta-estradiol, testosterone or progesterone on cell survival and steroid secretion were studied in primary cell cultures derived from 25 patients suffering from epithelial ovarian tumours. Tumour cells cultured in 17 beta-estradiol and testosterone showed a reduced cell survival (-10.3 +/- 2.3% and -15.6 +/- 2.7% minimum survival respectively). This reduction was inversely proportional to hormone concentrations within the range studied. No similar effect was observed in the progesterone cultures. It was found that 17 beta-estradiol was secreted from the primary cell cultures and, interestingly, the amount of 17 beta-estradiol secreted increased with increasing levels of 17 beta-estradiol in the environment. Neither progesterone nor testosterone production was observed in any of the cultures studied. It is believed that 17 beta-estradiol has an antiapoptotic effect on ovarian surface epithelial (OSE) cells. Reduction of 17 beta-estradiol in the environment may inhibit this effect, resulting in reduced cell survival. The ability of ovarian epithelial tumour cells to secrete 17 beta-estradiol suggests that epithelial ovarian tumours play an active role in altering their own hormonal environment, promoting tumour progression.
11838984	Allelopathic agents from Cyrtocymura cincta.	The sesquiterpenoid fractions from the chloroform extracts of roots and aerial parts of the weed Cyrtocymura cincta (Griseb.) H. Robinson (Compositae) were tested to observe the effects on seed germination and growth of three dicot and four monocot species. Promotion and inhibition effects were observed according to the examined compound, specific seed or cultivar, and concentration.
11846929	Delayed cerebrovascular complications of intrathecal colloidal gold.	OBJECTIVE: Therapy with intrathecal colloidal gold has been used in the past as an adjunct in the treatment of childhood neoplasms, including medulloblastoma and leukemia. We describe the long-term follow-up period of a series of patients treated with intrathecal colloidal gold and emphasize the high incidence of delayed cerebrovascular complications and their management. METHODS: Between 1967 and 1970, 14 children with posterior fossa medulloblastoma underwent treatment at the University of Minnesota. Treatment consisted of surgical resection, external beam radiotherapy, and intrathecal colloidal gold. All patients underwent long-term follow-up periods. RESULTS: Of the 14 original patients, 6 died within 2 years of treatment; all experienced persistent or recurrent disease. The eight surviving patients developed significant neurovascular complications 5 to 20 years after treatment. Three patients died as a result of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, and five developed ischemic symptoms from severe vasculopathy that resembled moyamoya disease. CONCLUSION: Although therapy with colloidal gold resulted in long-term survival in a number of cases of childhood medulloblastoma, our experience suggests that the severe cerebrovascular side effects fail to justify its use. The unique complications associated with colloidal gold therapy, as well as the management of these complications, are presented. We recommend routine screening of any long-term survivors to exclude the presence of an intracranial aneurysm and to document the possibility of moyamoya syndrome.
11848577	The influence of nisin on the thermal resistance of Bacillus cereus.	Decimal reduction times (D-values) at cooking and autoclaving temperatures (80 to 120 degrees C) of spores of Bacillus cereus ATCC 1479-8 in rice and milk (13% wt/vol) supplemented with nisin (25 microg/ml) were evaluated. The mean D-values at 97.8 degrees C in cooked white rice, phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), and rice water (pH 6.7) were 3.62, 1,99, and 1.34 min, respectively. From 80 to 100 degrees C, the mean reduction in D-values due to the addition of nisin to milk was 40%. The D-value at 110 degrees C was approximately 0.86 min for milk (control) and milk with nisin. The z-values ranged from 7.32 degrees C (phosphate buffer) to 10.37 degrees C (milk control).
11867272	Conversion of liposomal 4-androsten-3,17-dione by A. simplex immobilized cells in calcium pectate.	Arthrobacter simplex ATCC 6946 free and immobilized cells were assayed for their ability to convert 4-androsten-3,17-dione (AD) to 1,4-androstadien-3,17-dione (ADD) in aqueous and liposomal media. Bioconversions were carried out in a 100 ml flask containing 25 ml of AD liposomal or aqueous medium for 3h, and AD concentrations ranging from 0.3 to 1.0 mM were tested. AD/ADD ratios in samples were determined by HPLC. Biotransformation of substrate entrapped in multilamellar vesicles (MLV) was demonstrated to be better than the corresponding free form. In the former case, 2h were necessary to completely bioconvert 1 mM AD. By contrast, 3h were needed to reach 50% bioconversion in (4%) ethanol medium containing 0.63 mM AD. The liposomal medium allows us to perform steroid conversions at high concentrations of AD, reusing immobilized cells in suitable conditions which are non-toxic for microorganisms.
11869094	Implantation in the nine-banded armadillo: how does a single blastocyst form four embryos?	In the course of a study on reproduction in the nine-banded armadillo, conceptuses between the beginning of implantation and primitive streak formation were examined to determine the manner of trophoblast differentiation during invasion of the endometrium and the sequence involved in formation of four identical quadruplets. The armadillo blastocyst implants in the fundic recess of the uterus. A single amnion and cup-shaped epiblastic plate are formed, and an exocelom develops between the amnion and trophoblast of the implantation site. Loss of the abembryonic trophoblast exposes both visceral and parietal endoderm to the uterine lumen, inverting the yolk sac. Continued expansion of the exocelom facilitates the intrusion of the forming conceptus into the uterine lumen and is accompanied by enlargement of the epiblastic plate. Separate areas of condensations of epiblast cells are the first indication of formation of the four identical quadruplets. The single layer of microvillous trophoblast with basal infoldings (designated absorptive trophoblast) is most likely to contribute extensively to movement of fluid into the exocelom. The resulting expansion of the exocelom not only enlarges the implantation site but also displaces the collapsing common amnion, limiting the amnion to the areas of the forming embryos.
11883538	Sonographically guided core needle biopsy of bone and soft tissue tumors.	OBJECTIVE: To determine the value of sonographically guided core needle biopsies of musculoskeletal tumors as a reliable alternative to fluoroscopy and computed tomography. METHODS: A prospective study was performed in 74 patients referred for image-guided needle biopsy of primary or recurrent musculoskeletal neoplasms and suspected solitary metastasis. Imaging studies performed before biopsy established the feasibility of sonographic guidance in 65 lesions, of which 38 were soft tissue tumors and 27 were bone lesions with extraosseous masses. The lesions were located mainly in the appendicular skeleton. Tissue samples were obtained with a 14-gauge cutting needle coupled to an automated biopsy device under local anesthesia and sonographic guidance. Statistical analysis was based on 48 biopsies confirmed by successful clinical treatment (10 cases) or surgical resection (38 cases). RESULTS: An accurate diagnosis was obtained in 47 (97%) of 48 biopsies; sensitivity was 96%, and specificity was 100%. The method did not yield sufficient tissue to establish a diagnosis in 1 case. Considering all 65 biopsies, high-quality specimens were obtained in 96%. The procedure was carried out expeditiously, and there were no complications. CONCLUSIONS: Sonographically guided core needle biopsy is accurate and safe, obviating open biopsy in most soft tissue masses and bone tumors with extraosseous masses in the appendicular skeleton. In such patients, the sonographically guided procedure is the most prompt and effective method for obtaining tissue samples.
11883643	Permeability profiles of M-alkoxysubstituted pyrrolidinoethylesters of phenylcarbamic acid across caco-2 monolayers and human skin.	PURPOSE: The purpose of the present research was to study 10 m-alkoxysubstituted pyrrolidinoethylesters of phenylcarbamic acid-potential local anesthetics. The relationships between the structure of the molecule, its physicochemical parameters (log D(oct), log k, R(M), solubility) were correlated to the permeability data obtained from permeation experiments in Caco-2 monolayers and excised human skin in vitro. METHODS: The extent and mechanism(s) of permeability of the series were studied through a Caco-2 monolayer in the apical-to-basolateral (a-b) and basolateral-to-apical (b-a) directions. The MTT test was performed to determine cellular damage. In vitro transdermal permeability data were obtained from permeation experiments on excised human skin by using side-by-side chambers. Passive diffusion and iontophoretically enhanced permeability were measured. RESULTS: In Caco-2 monolayers, similar results in the shape of the permeability curves were obtained for the two directions. In the b-a direction, the values of P(app) were approximately 2-6 times greater than in the a-b direction. A plot of drug permeability vs. the number of carbons in the alkoxychain plateaued first, after which the permeability decreased by the increasing lipophilicity of the drug. If the log D(oct) of the ester was > or = 3.4 and the MW > 385 Da, no measurable Caco-2 permeability was found. Cell damage was also higher by the more lipophilic compounds. In excised human skin, the relationship between the passive diffusion of the drugs and the number of carbons in the alkoxychain was parabolic (r2 = 0.95). Introducing low-level electrical current (iontophoresis), transdermal permeability of the more hydrophilic phenylcarbamic acid esters increased clearly. CONCLUSIONS: Lipophilicity and solubility of a compound have crucial roles in the permeation process. A very high lipophilicity has, however, a negative influence on the permeability, both intestinally and transdermally. Iontophoresis significantly increases the diffusion of small and less lipophilic compounds.
11887101	A strategy for skin irritation testing.	Skin irritation safety testing and risk assessment for new products, and the ingredients they contain, is a critical requirement before market introduction. In the past, much of this skin testing required the use of experimental animals. However, new current best approaches for skin corrosion and skin irritation testing and risk assessment are being defined, obviating the need for animal test methods. Several in vitro skin corrosion test methods have been endorsed after successful validation and are gaining acceptance by regulatory authorities. In vitro test methods for acute, cumulative (repeat exposure), and chronic (prolonged exposure) skin irritation are under development. Though not yet validated, many are being used successfully for testing and risk assessment purposes as documented through an expanding literature. Likewise, a novel acute irritation patch test in human subjects is providing a valid and ethical alternative to animal testing for prediction of chemical skin irritation potential. An array of other human test methods also have been developed and used for the prediction of cumulative/chronic skin irritation and the general skin compatibility of finished products. The development of instrumental methods (e.g., transepidermal water loss, capacitance, and so on) has provided the means for analyzing various biophysical properties of human skin and changes in these properties caused by exposure to irritants. However, these methods do not directly measure skin inflammation. A recently introduced skin surface tape sampling procedure has been shown to detect changes in skin surface cytokine recovery that correlate with inflammatory skin changes associated with chemical irritant exposures or existing dermatitis. It holds promise for more objective quantification of skin irritation events, including subclinical (sensory) irritation, in the future.
11887552	[Diagnosis and risk stratification of acute coronary syndrome in general practice and in the hospital]	Acute coronary syndromes usually present as acute chest pain but a manifestation with atypical symptoms or entirely without symptoms makes rapid diagnosis of this potentially lethal syndrome difficult and may lead to delay of the appropriate therapy. The role of the practitioner in this situation is complex since early exclusion of an acute coronary syndrome may be very difficult with the means available in a private practice; on the other hand the early hours which are critical for early therapy may be lost in a private practice. In the early phase of an acute coronary syndrome, diagnoses and risk stratification are based primarily on history, clinical presentation, ECG and biological markers. In the hospital, the time course of these parameters, functional tests for diagnosis and risk stratification as well as determination of left ventricular function and coronary angiography have additional relevance. Recent developments are the availability of highly sensitive and specific biological markers (Troponins), the new classification in acute coronary syndrome with and without ST-elevation and the identification of inflammatory processes in the coronary artery, which have added importantly to our understanding of the acute coronary syndrome. The availability of very early therapy and the possibilities of telemedicine have the potential to influence the pre-hospital diagnostic strategy and management of acute coronary syndromes.
11896040	Estimate of the subepithelial hydrostatic pressure that drives inflammatory transudate into the airway lumen.	Inflammatory diseases of the upper respiratory tract are characterized by flow of plasma filtrate across the epithelium into the airway lumen (&quot;transudation&quot;). Elsewhere, we have proposed that extravasation from microvessels causes edema, and this is associated with elevated subepithelial hydrostatic pressure that drives transudation. To test this hypothesis, we have attempted to block transudation by elevating luminal hydrostatic pressure. We measured the appearance of plasma markers into the lumen of an isolated perfused segment of rat trachea in vivo and found that stimulation of one vagal nerve caused a rapid (half-time approximately 5 min) and nonselective increase in the flow of markers from blood to airway lumen. Leukocyte migration also caused transudation that developed much more slowly (half-time = 2-3 h). In both cases, transudation was blocked by application of luminal hydrostatic pressures. The critical luminal pressure needed to block vagally induced transudation was approximately 4.5 cmH2O, and, to block epithelial transudation induced by leukocyte traffic, it was 3 cmH2O, and we conclude that these are the subepithelial pressures that drive inflammatory transudation into the airway lumen.
11911624	The pathophysiology of cerebral arterial gas embolism.	Bubbles are introduced to the arterial circulation in many patients undergoing cardiac surgical procedures, and some of these distribute to the cerebral vessels. Larger bubbles may arrest in cerebral arterioles, causing ischemia and neuronal injury in the downstream territory. Smaller bubbles may redistribute through the cerebral circulation, but this is not a benign event. Their passage may cause transient ischemia and cause damage to endothelium. Margination and activation of leukoctyes follows, and may cause a secondary ischemia. Although the potential of large bubbles to cause cerebral injury is not disputed, there is controversy over the significance of exposure to small bubbles in cardiac surgery. It is known that postsurgical neuropsychological deficits do correlate positively with numbers of emboli to which patients are exposed, but to date, the technology to distinguish between gaseous and particulate emboli or to size emboli accurately is not readily available. Until this technology becomes available and is applied in large studies designed to determine the importance of small bubbles, it seems prudent to take all practical steps to prevent introduction of arterial bubbles in cardiac surgery.
11921732	[Immunological disorders in patients with chronic viral hepatitis type C]	Various immunological disorders have been observed frequently in patients with chronic viral hepatitis C. Hepatitis C virus has been implicated in the pathogenesis of: essential mixed cryoglobulinemia, cryoglobulinemic vasculitis glomerulonephritis, thrombocytopenia, porphyria cutanea tarda, autoimmune thyroiditis (among others). AIM OF THE STUDY: Was to determine the prevalence and clinical meaning of immunological disorders in HCV infected patients. METHODS: 93 HCV infected patients were studied with regard to the presence of cryoglobulins, autoantibodies, rheumatoid factor (RF) and circulating immunological complexes (CIC). RESULTS: 35 patients out of 93 (38%) had detectable cryoglobulins. Cryoglobulins in 90 cases were of type III and in 3--of type II. CIC /by immunoelectrophoresis of the PEG sediments/ were found in sera of 87 patients (93.5%). 38 persons (41%) had detectable rheumatoid factor. Antinuclear antibodies were found in sera of 15 patients (16%), anti-smooth muscles antibodies--in 21 persons (23%) and anti-LKM1 antibodies--in 5 (5%). Titers of autoantibodies were usually low. The most frequent clinical manifestations were arthralgia and skin changes. CONCLUSION: Immunological disorders /circulating immune complexes (93.5%), autoantibodies (60%), rheumatoid factor (41%), cryoglobulinemia type III (38%)/ are frequently found in HCV infected patients. Age, gender, histological score and clinical evidence of liver cirrhosis do not influence on rate of these abnormalities. Clinical manifestations of immunological disorders are usually mild.
11923597	Effects of managed care on alcohol and other drug (AOD) treatment.	The article represents the proceedings of a symposium at the 2001 RSA Meeting in Montreal, Canada. The organizer/chair was Stephen Magura. The presentations examined: (1) How managed care organization policies may affect enrollees' use of alcohol and other drug (AOD) treatment, by Constance Horgan and associates; (2) The determinants of patients' access to and utilization of AOD treatment in a large health maintenance organization, by Jennifer R. Mertens and Constance Weisner; (3) The impact on treatment access and costs of a statewide carve-out for AOD treatment for Medicaid, by Donald Shepard and associates; and (4) The predictive validity of a new patient assessment technology developed, in part, to better justify AOD treatment in response to the demands of managed care, by Stephen Magura and associates.
11930127	Visual attention in blindsight: sensitivity in the blind field increased by targets in the sighted field.	Damage to primary visual cortex results in a scotoma, or region of blindness, which can nevertheless be accompanied by residual visual abilities in the affected field. This dissociation of visual processing and visual experience is often described as blindsight. We investigated the role of visual attention in blindsight and the application of limited visual resources between the blind and sighted fields in a well-studied case. Contrary to expectations based on normal capacity limits, processing a target in the sighted field improved rather than interfered with processing of targets in the blind field. The benefit from the sighted field was greater when blind and sighted targets were in symmetric locations about the vertical meridian.
11935640	Posttraumatic stress disorder and the injured worker. Part I.	PTSD occurs in a small but significant number of people who experience life-threatening events. When a disorder occurs, it can have severe and long-lasting effects on a person's ability to work and function effectively. Particularly effective treatment interventions give patients the opportunity to synthesize and integrate their traumatic memories. Such strategies increase their ability to more narrowly limit the traumatic event and broaden personal, occupational, and social experiences that are healthy and positive. The results is that, although the traumatic experience may be recalled, it is seen as a single autobiographical event in a rich chain of personal experiences.
11952706	Drug eruption secondary to aciclovir with recall phenomenon in a dermatome previously affected by herpes zoster.	Classically, recall dermatitis refers to chemotherapy-induced reactivation of skin damage caused by radiotherapy months, or even years, earlier. The concept of recall dermatitis has now been extended to include radiation recall dermatitis induced by other drugs, ultraviolet radiation, extravasation of drugs, and allergic contact dermatitis. We now describe recall dermatitis along the residual cutaneous lesions of a previous thoracic herpes zoster in a patient who developed a drug eruption after oral administration of aciclovir. The most striking feature consisted of confluent linear erythema along the dermatomes previously involved by the herpes zoster episode. Histopathologic study demonstrated small foci of spongiosis, vacuolar changes involving the basal layer of the epidermis and single necrotic keratinocytes scattered within the epidermis. The papillary dermis appeared oedematous and with dilated blood capillaries surrounded by a sparse inflammatory infiltrate composed mainly of lymphocytes. Serial sections failed to demonstrate cytologic changes of herpes varicella zoster infection. We interpreted this case as an example of recall dermatitis because the widespread cutaneous eruption secondary to aciclovir was more intense in skin previously compromised by herpes varicella zoster infection. To the best of our knowledge, recall dermatitis has not been described before at the site of previous involvement by herpes zoster.
11955150	Broadband fivefold reduction of vacuum fluctuations probed by dyes in photonic crystals.	We observed for the first time a strong angle-independent modification of spontaneous emission spectra from laser dyes in photonic crystals, made of inverse opals in titania. Comparison with spectra from such crystals with much smaller lattice spacing, for which emission is in the long wavelength limit, reveals inhibition of emission up to a factor approximately 5 over a large bandwidth of 13% of the first order Bragg resonance frequency. The center frequency and bandwidth of the inhibition agree with calculated total density of states, while the measured inhibition of vacuum fluctuations is much larger. Because of the specific location of the dye molecules, we likely probe the strongly modulated local photonic density of states.
11960950	Lengthening contraction-induced inflammation is linked to secondary damage but devoid of neutrophil invasion.	Inflammation triggered by exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) has been postulated to influence the extent of tissue destruction. We tested the hypotheses that 1) repressing inflammation decreases secondary damage production and 2) EIMD leads to a sequential appearance of inflammatory cells in which neutrophil accumulation precedes macrophage invasion. Rat ankle dorsiflexor muscles were submitted to in situ lengthening contractions. Measurement of in vitro contractile properties, inflammatory cell concentrations, and histological staining were performed postprotocol. Rats were treated with diclofenac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID group) to repress inflammation or with the vehicle solution (EIMD group). Muscles from the NSAID group had smaller force deficits on days 2 and 3 postexercise. This effect was associated with significantly smaller increases in the concentration of muscle macrophage ED1+ and ED2+. Surprisingly, neutrophils did not accumulate post-EIMD. These results suggest that inflammation-induced ED1+ macrophage accumulation is responsible for the secondary damage observed 2-3 days post-EIMD. We further conclude that an increase in ED1+ macrophage concentration can occur in absence of previous neutrophil invasion.
11972646	Promoting the effects of intravesical instillation of saline on bladder lesion development in rats pre-treated with BBN.	BACKGROUND: At present, immunotherapeutic agents such as bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) and anti-tumor chemotherapeutic agents in saline are used intravesically in patients with bladder carcinoma. However, of greater significance is the possibility that the saline vehicle may itself promote carcinoma development in the bladder. METHODS: The potential promoting effects of intravesical instillation of saline were assessed in female F344 rats. The animals were divided into 3 groups, all of which received 0.05% N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) in their drinking water for the first 10 weeks. They were then maintained without further treatment (group 1) or received intravesical instillations of 0.3 mL of saline or distilled water once a week for 6 weeks, 15 weeks after the end of the BBN treatment (groups 2 and 3). At 32 weeks, all the animals were killed and examined immunohistochemically with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) antibody, as well as by routine histopathologic examination. RESULTS: Both the incidence and the number of bladder carcinomas were higher in the animals that received instillations of saline than in those who did not receive the instillations. Significant increases in tumor size were also noted for the saline-treated groups, although this was not linked with the PCNA labeling index. CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that saline is a promoter of urinary bladder carcinogenesis either because of the catheterization or the fluid itself.
11978858	The diversity of ganglion cells in a mammalian retina.	We report a survey of the population of ganglion cells in the rabbit retina. A random sample of 301 neurons in the ganglion cell layer was targeted for photofilling, a method in which the arbors of the chosen neurons are revealed by diffusion of a photochemically induced fluorescent product from their somas. An additional 129 cells were labeled by microinjection of Lucifer yellow. One hundred and thirty-eight cells were visualized by expression of the gene encoding a green fluorescent protein, introduced by particle-mediated gene transfer. One hundred and sixty-six cells were labeled by particle-mediated introduction of DiI. In the total population of 734 neurons, we could identify 11 types of retinal ganglion cell. An analysis based on retinal coverage shows that this number of ganglion cell types would not exceed the available total number of ganglion cells. Although some uncertainties remain, this sample appears to account for the majority of the ganglion cells present in the rabbit retina. Some known physiological types could easily be mapped onto structural types, but half of them could not; a large set of poorly known codings of the visual input is transmitted to the brain.
11984443	Screening women in jails for chlamydial and gonococcal infection using urine tests: feasibility, acceptability, prevalence, and treatment rates.	BACKGROUND: Women entering jails are at high risk for sexually transmitted diseases; however, screening for chlamydial and gonococcal infection is not routinely performed in most jails. New urine tests have made it easier to screen for these infections in nonclinical settings. GOAL: The feasibility and acceptability of urine-based screening for women entering jails and the prevalence of and treatment rates for chlamydial and gonococcal infections were determined. STUDY DESIGN: Women entering jails in Chicago, Illinois; Birmingham, Alabama; and Baltimore, Maryland, who signed consent forms were tested for chlamydial and gonococcal infection by means of the urine ligase chain reaction assay. Those testing positive were treated in jail; health department staff members attempted to contact those already released. RESULTS: Most women who were approached agreed to be tested (range, 87-98%, depending on city), and most of these women provided a specimen (range, 92-100%). Among 5364 women aged 16 to 75 years who were tested, the prevalence of chlamydial and gonococcal infections was high, especially among those &lt;25 years of age (range, 15.3-21.5% for chlamydial infection and 8.2-9.2% for gonorrhea, depending on city). The majority of women testing positive were treated in jail or outside of jail (61-85%). CONCLUSIONS: Screening women in jails for chlamydial and gonococcal infection with urine tests is feasible, is acceptable to most women, and leads to detection and treatment of many infections. Routine screening should reduce medical complications in this population and should prevent transmission in the community, given that many women are soon released.
11988490	Ionic current basis of electrocardiographic waveforms: a model study.	Body surface electrocardiograms and electrograms recorded from the surfaces of the heart are the basis for diagnosis and treatment of cardiac electrophysiological disorders and arrhythmias. Given recent advances in understanding the molecular mechanisms of arrhythmia, it is important to relate these electrocardiographic waveforms to cellular electrophysiological processes. This modeling study establishes the following principles: (1) voltage gradients created by heterogeneities of the slow-delayed rectifier (I(Ks)) and transient outward (I(to)) potassium current inscribe the T wave and J wave, respectively; T-wave polarity and width are strongly influenced by the degree of intercellular coupling through gap-junctions. (2) Changes in [K+]o modulate the T wave through their effect on the rapid-delayed rectifier, I(Kr). (3) Alterations of I(Ks), I(Kr), and I(Na) (fast sodium current) in long-QT syndrome (LQT1, LQT2, and LQT3, respectively) are reflected in characteristic QT-interval and T-wave changes; LQT1 prolongs QT without widening the T wave. (4) Accelerated inactivation of I(Na) on the background of large epicardial I(to) results in ST elevation (Brugada phenotype) that reflects the degree of severity. (5) Activation of the ATP-sensitive potassium current, I(K(ATP)), is sufficient to cause ST elevation during acute ischemia. These principles provide a mechanistic cellular basis for interpretation of electrocardiographic waveforms.
11989284	[The role of neutrophils in the regulation of antimicrobial resistance]	The functional activity of neutrophils and macrophages and an immune response to sheep red blood cells decrease in mice with local staphylococcal infection in the early period. In the first 24 hours after contamination, the animals' neutrophils lose their capacity to produce immuno-stimulating agents, they begin secreting immunosuppressive factors. Administration of secretory products of activated neutrophils, the low-weight molecular peptide isolated from these cells to the induced animals restores the immunological responsiveness of the staphylococcus-infected animals, reduces the death of mice infected with S. aureus and S. typhimurium.
11990224	Evidence for implicit sequence learning in dyslexia.	Nicolson and Fawcett (Cognition 1990; 35: 159-182) have suggested that a deficit in the automatization of skill learning could account for the general impairments found in dyslexia. Much of the evidence for their claims has been collected via a dual task paradigm, which might allow for alternative explanations of the data. The present study examines automatic skill learning in a single task paradigm and extends previous studies by independently examining the contribution of stimulus-based and response-based learning. The task replicates Mayr's (J. Exp. Psychol.: Learning Memory Cognition 1996; 22: 350-364) methodology in the Serial Reaction Time task by exposing participants to two structured displays, simultaneously. Learning is measured by comparing RT to the learned sequence against RT to a random display. This study demonstrates learning for both dyslexic and control groups for a spatial sequence which was observed and a concurrent non-spatial sequence which was responded to via a keypress. Learning of the sequence did not seem to depend on awareness of the sequence structure. These results suggest that automatic skill learning is intact in dyslexic individuals.
11990318	Consciousness and the varieties of emotion experience: a theoretical framework.	Data reviewed suggest that previous theories of emotion experience are too narrow in scope and that lack of consensus is due to the fact that emotion experience takes various forms and is heterogenous. The authors treat separately the content of emotion experience, the underlying nonconscious correspondences, and processes producing emotion experience. They classify the nature and content of emotion experience and propose that it depends on 3 aspects of attention: mode (analytic-synthetic; detached-immersed), direction (self-world), and focus (evaluation-action). The account is informed by a 2-level view of consciousness in which phenomenology (1st order) is distinguished from awareness (2nd order). These distinctions enable the authors to differentiate and account for cases of &quot;unconscious&quot; emotion, in which there is an apparent lack of phenomenology or awareness.
11995268	Update on pancreatic cancer.	Pancreatic cancer is one of the commonest causes of cancer death worldwide. Patients with pancreatic cancer benefit from resectional surgery (improved quality of life) and adjuvant treatment (enhanced survival). This review covers advances in the understanding of the development of pancreatic cancer, state-of-the-art clinical management and, finally, novel treatment and screening techniques.
12001967	Technology requirements for nonterrestrial ecosystems.	Factors associated with planning and implementing research and development for nonterrestrial closed-ecology life support systems have been analyzed in terms of systems engineering considerations. These factors are discussed in this paper to provide a planning overview. It is anticipated that systems of this type probably will be required for future manned space activities that would involve many participants in a space habitat, particularly at remote locations or for long-duration missions. Of particular interest are design scenarios that involve nonterrestrial ecosystems. Although these approaches offer the promise of being able to provide food regeneration by conventional processes, such as photosynthesis and essentially terrestrial agricultural methodology, the potential impact of nonterrestrial environmental conditions on these processes and criteria for ecological stability are not adequately defined. The role of these factors in research planning is discussed, and potentially relevant areas of research are described.
12012268	[Capacitive requirement for acute in-patient care of patients with psychosomatic diseases in bavaria]	Estimations of the requirement for acute in-patient care of patients with psychosomatic diseases in Bavaria have to rely on respective data on their incidence and prevalence as valid requirement data are missing. The required capacity of in-patient beds depends on several, inconsistently figured parameters: hospitalization rate, length of stay, occupancy rate. Based on conservative assumptions the hospitalization rate was calculated to be at least 1.3 admissions per 1000 and for adequate treatment the average length of stay should not be limited to less than 50 days. In order to avoid unnecessary delay of treatment a realistic occupancy rate has to be 90 %. Thus the minimal capacity for in-patient care is assessed to be 2453 beds. At present patients with psychosomatic diseases in Bavaria receive in-patient treatment in psychosomatic departments of general hospitals, hospitals and rehab clinics of psychosomatic and psychotherapeutic medicine, and in hospitals of psychiatry and psychotherapy, in each with a different focus. When the expertise was drafted these acute care and rehab hospitals provided some 2500 beds - with only 76 beds in general hospitals. For quality assessment of the available beds for in-patient care and future planning minimal standards of structural quality have to be consented. At present it is not possible to make a clear and substantial distinction between the treatment for patients with psychosomatic diseases in acute-care hospitals and in psychosomatic rehab clinics respectively. Thus, the necessary in-patient rehab capacity can only be assessed roughly. The existing pluralism of the in-patient care providing system for patients with psychosomatic diseases is considered to be appropriate for different needs of this patient group. In the future excellent care for this patient group will acknowledge options for a more flexible and interconnected care-providing system. This is a publication of the complete expertise by the project group &quot;Acute In-patient Care for Patients with Psychosomatic Diseases in Bavaria&quot; which has been handed to the Bavarian Ministry of Social Affairs in December 1999.
12013198	A double-blind study comparing the effect of glycerin and urea on dry, eczematous skin in atopic patients.	Moisturizing creams have beneficial effects in the treatment of dry, scaly skin, but they may induce adverse skin reactions. In a randomized double-blind study, 197 patients with atopic dermatitis were treated with one of the following: a new moisturizing cream with 20% glycerin, its cream base without glycerin as placebo, or a cream with 4% urea and 4% sodium chloride. The patients were asked to apply the cream at least once daily for 30 days. Adverse skin reactions and changes in skin dryness were assessed by the patient and a dermatologist. Adverse skin reactions such as smarting (a sharp local superficial sensation) were felt significantly less among patients using the 20% glycerin cream compared with the urea-saline cream, because 10% of the patients judged the smarting as severe or moderate when using glycerin cream, whereas 24% did so using urea-saline cream (p &lt; 0.0006). No differences were found regarding skin reactions such as stinging, itching and dryness/irritation. The study showed equal effects on skin dryness as judged by the patients and the dermatologist. In conclusion, a glycerin containing cream appears to be a suitable alternative to urea/sodium chloride in the treatment of atopic dry skin.
12013693	The effect of virtual reality and training on liver operation planning.	OBJECTIVE: The three-dimensional relation of a liver tumour to the intrahepatic vascular trees is basis of operation planning in liver surgery. Yet it has not been proven whether 3D reconstruction and further computerised processing will enhance precision of operation planning in liver surgery which has been based on the liver segment classification of Couinaud up to now. DESIGN: Our interdisciplinary group (department of Surgery, German Cancer Research Center and Department of Radiology) has developed a new interactive computer-based quantitative 3D operation planning system for liver surgery which is being introduced into the clinical routine. The system quantifies the organ structures semiautomatically, defines resection planes depending on safety margins and the vascular trees, and presents the data in digital movies as well as in quantitative reports. We conducted a clinical trial to evaluate whether 3D reconstruction will lead to an improved operation planning. Data of 7 virtual patients were presented to a total of 81 surgeons in different levels of training. The tumours had to be assigned to a liver segment and subsequently drawn together with the operation proposals into a liver model. The precision of both was measured quantitatively for each surgeon and stratified concerning 2D and different types of 3D presentations. RESULTS: The 3D anatomy can be visualised in high quality which results in good perception of the third dimension (depth). Tumour assignment to liver segments was significantly correlated to the level of training (p &lt; 0.05). There was a significant increase (p &lt; 0.001) in the precision of tumour localisation by 51% and resection proposal from 2D through 3D reconstructions by 13%-21%. Quantitative differences of the simplified Couinaud's classification of the liver segments compared to the true vascular anatomy of up to 40% were found. CONCLUSION: The impact of individual 3D-reconstruction on surgical planning has been proven to be significant and increases precision quantitatively. The merit of Couinaud's classification may be enhanced by individualisation of the segment borders in future.
12016272	Cholinergic atrial fibrillation in a computer model of a two-dimensional sheet of canine atrial cells with realistic ionic properties.	Classical concepts of atrial fibrillation (AF) have been rooted in Moe's multiple-wavelet hypothesis and simple cellular-automaton computer model. Recent experimental work has raised questions about the multiple-wavelet mechanism, suggesting a discrete &quot;driver region&quot; underlying AF. We reexplored the theoretical basis for AF with a 2-dimensional computer model of a 5x10-cm sheet of atrial cells with realistic ionic and coupling properties. Vagal actions were formulated based on patch-clamp studies of acetylcholine (ACh) effects. In control, a single extrastimulus resulted in a highly meandering unstable spiral wave. Simulated electrograms showed fibrillatory activity, with a dominant frequency (DF, 6.5 Hz) that correlated with the mean rate. Uniform ACh reduced core meander of the spiral wave by approximately 70% (as measured by the standard deviation of spiral-wave tip position) and accelerated the DF to 17.0 Hz. Simulated vagally induced refractoriness heterogeneity caused wavefront breakup as accelerated reentrant activity in regions of short refractoriness impinged on regions unable to respond in a 1:1 fashion because of longer refractoriness. In 7 simulations spanning the range of conditions giving sustained AF, 5 were maintained by single dominant spiral waves. On average, 3.0+/-1.3 wavelets were present (range, 1 to 7). Most wavelets were short-lived and did not contribute to AF maintenance. In contrast to predictions of the multiple-wavelet hypothesis, but in agreement with recent experimental evidence, our model indicates that AF can result from relatively stable primary spiral-wave generators and is significantly organized. Our results suggest that vagal AF may arise from ACh-induced stabilization of the primary spiral-wave generator and disorganization of the heterogeneous tissue response. The full text of this article is available at http://www.circresaha.org.
12017853	[Ultrasound diagnosis in trauma: elbow and hand]	Ultrasonography with high-frequency transducers nowadays plays an important role in diagnosing post-traumatic complaints of the elbow and hand tissue in children as well as in adults. We see it as an addition to clinical examination, standard X-ray, and other radiological methods. As a noninvasive procedure we can investigate post-traumatic changes and postoperative pain, detect foreign bodies, and also use it for postoperative metal removal. The possibility of imaging cartilage structures with ultrasound also enables us to diagnose post-traumatic injuries in children's elbows such as supracondylar fractures, epiphysiolyses, and fractures of the epicondyles.
12017904	Effectiveness of tramadol as an analgesic in oral surgery.	In a randomised, double-blind, cross-over trial, 15 healthy, young patients undergoing surgical removal of bilateral, impacted, third-molar teeth received the analgesic tramadol 50 mg, as a single dose, either 2 hours prior or immediately before the surgical procedure. There were no differences in the post-operative pain levels or degree of trismus between the two methods of administration of tramadol (P > 0.05), suggesting absence of any pre-emptive analgesic effect for the drug in the dose studied. The prevalence of unwanted side effects such as nausea (37 percent) was high within the first 24 hours.
12023730	Large differences in the fraction of active bacteria in plankton, sediments, and biofilm.	Generally, only a small fraction of free-living pelagic bacteria are metabolically active, while particle-associated bacteria usually exhibit a larger proportion of active bacteria. Most previous studies on the active fraction of bacteria focus on planktonic communities, and there are only a few studies on sediment and epiphytic biofilm bacteria. We compared the active fraction of the total number of bacteria in three different habitats of the littoral zone of Lake Erken, Sweden, including the sediments, the epiphytic biofilm on the submerged macrophyte Ranunculus circinatus, and the water column. Active bacteria were detected as those with an active electron transport system, identified by the capacity to reduce the tetrazolium salt CTC (5-cyano-2,3-ditolyltetrazolium chloride) into its fluorescent, water insoluble state. There were large differences between habitats. The active fraction of the total number of bacteria detected by fluorescence microscopy (annual mean +/- SD) in the sediments was 46 +/- 10%, on R. circinatus 37 +/- 18%, and in the water column 4 +/- 4%. The abundance of CTC-reducing cells was correlated with total bacterial abundance, and the fraction of CTC-reducing bacteria generally increased with total bacterial abundance, for all the habitats. Consequently, the difference in the fraction of CTC-reducing bacteria between the habitats could be attributed to different densities of bacteria, with a larger proportion of active bacteria at higher bacterial densities.
12027271	Depressive symptoms in farm women: effects of health status and farming lifestyle characteristics, behaviors, and beliefs.	A multitude of responsibilities, environmental and social influences, and stressors place farm women at high risk for depressive symptoms. This cross sectional survey design study examines demographic, health status, and farm lifestyle characteristics, behaviors and beliefs as risk factors contributing to depressive symptoms among farm women in southeast Louisiana. The study was conducted in a stratified, random sample of 657 women 18 years and older. Factors predictive of depressive symptoms in adjusted logistic regression included those who experience poor health, perceive hazards associated with farming, experience recent farm-related injuries and engage in farming over longer periods of time. These findings help target interventions toward women at risk for depressive symptoms.
12028468	Associations between use of cyclosporine-sparing agents and outcome in kidney transplant recipients.	BACKGROUND: Diltiazem, widely used as a cyclosporine-sparing agent, has been suggested to confer a benefit on graft and patient outcome in kidney transplantation related to immunomodulatory properties. Use of cyclosporine-sparing agents (CsSpA) is routinely recorded by the Australia &amp; New Zealand Dialysis and Transplant (ANZDATA) Registry, and we used these data to examine the associations between CsSpA use and outcomes. METHODS: Graft and patient survival were analyzed for a cohort of 3913 people who received kidney transplants in Australia or New Zealand between 1 April 1993 and 30 March 2001. Patients were followed to death or loss of graft function. Graft and patient survival analyses were performed using Cox proportional hazards models, including a time varying covariate for CsSpA use in analyses of graft failure. Occurrence of delayed graft function (DGF) and acute rejection also were examined as secondary outcomes. RESULTS: There was no difference in patient survival in the first 12 months post transplantation, but from 12 months onwards there is a survival advantage associated with CsSpA use among cadaveric donor (CD) recipients in both univariate hazard ratio (HR) 0.56, 95% CI 0.41 to 0.76, P &lt; 0.001 and multivariate (HR 0.56, 95% CI 0.40 to 0.79, P &lt; 0.001) analyses. This was consistent across subgroups examined. Lower rates of early graft loss (censored for death) were associated with CsSpA use [odds ratio (OR) 0.61, 95% CI 0.50 to 0.75, P &lt; 0.0001]. Lower rates of use of antibody therapy for rejection also were observed, but not lower rates of biopsy-proven rejection. CONCLUSIONS: CsSpA use was associated with improved patient mortality after kidney transplantation. Whether this was a direct drug effect or due to other factors associated with diltiazem use cannot be inferred directly from these data, although several plausible mechanisms exist which might mediate a diltiazem effect.
12029435	Palliative home care: improving co-operation between the specialist team and the family doctor.	The aim of this study is to ascertain family doctors' opinions of the home care services dispensed by a specialist palliative care team. Fifty-six doctors responded to the questionnaire they had been sent. Ninety-four per cent of them were satisfied with the team's intervention. The highest satisfaction ratings were those for the provision of specialist medical equipment, technical competence and medical support. The lowest ratings were for information coming from the team and for recognition of the practitioner as the primary carer. Among these items, information, regard for the doctor's role and medical support are closely correlated to the practitioners' overall index of satisfaction. The palliative care team answered a mirror questionnaire. It found its availability, its speed of intervention, its technical competence, and its regard for the doctor's role very satisfactory. It was less satisfied with the information, medical support and psychosocial support it provided. Its centres of interest also differed, with the team clearly attributing greater importance to psychosocial support than to technical competence, regard for the role, and information to the practitioner. In conclusion, a survey of this type is a useful and easy way of identifying the aspects that need to be improved on by the palliative care team so as to improve its co-operation with the family physician. But it is of interest only if it forms part of an overall approach whereby, having taken the survey results on board, the team uses them to modify its intervention procedures.
12031522	Temporal nonlinearity revealed by transient evoked otoacoustic emissions recorded to trains of multiple clicks.	A series of detailed experiments is described that investigates how a transient evoked otoacoustic emission (TEOAE) recorded to one-click stimulus is affected by the presence of a variable number of preceding clicks presented over a range of interclick intervals (ICIs). Part of the rationale was to determine if the resulting nonlinear temporal interactions could help explain the amplitude reduction seen when TEOAEs are recorded at very high click rates, as when using maximum length sequence stimulation. Amongst the findings was that the presence of a preceding train of clicks could either suppress or enhance emission amplitude, depending on the number of clicks in the train and the ICI. Results also indicated that the duration of the click trains, rather than the ICI, was the important factor in yielding the most suppressed response and that this seemed to depend on stimulus level. The results recorded at two levels also suggested that the cochlear temporal nonlinearity being monitored was in part related to the nonlinear process that determines the compressive input/output function for stimulus level. It is hypothesised that nonlinear temporal overlap of vibration patterns on the basilar membrane may underlie much of the pattern of results.
12039433	A unilateral presentation of 'Satoyoshi syndrome'.	Satoyoshi syndrome is a rare, slowly progressive disorder of unknown etiology with a poor long-term prognosis. The syndrome consists of the following clinical features: (1) painful, intermittent muscle spasms; (2) alopecia; (3) diarrhea; and (4) skeletal abnormalities in cases of juvenile onset. The age of onset is typically less than 20 years of age, although three adult onset cases had been reported. There had been no case report of Satoyoshi syndrome with strict unilateral presentation. We present a 25-year-old man with progressive unilateral hair loss and muscle spasms. Although previous literature had postulated malabsorption and autoimmune mechanism as pathogenic for Satoyoshi syndrome, the presence of a strictly unilateral presentation argues against those hypotheses. However, these hypotheses should still be considered, as our patient did not fit a typical Satoyoshi syndrome. Therefore, more research is needed to understand the pathophysiology and develop an effective treatment to prevent the progression of the disease.
12048585	[Survival analysis techniques]	Statistical methods known as survival analyses are useful for analyzing time-related events, in which time from a benchmark event to an endpoint is the focus of interest. Survival analysis describes not only patient survival statistics (as suggested by the name), but also other dichotomous outcomes such as time of remission, time of breastfeeding, etc. This paper discusses survival analysis techniques, commenting and comparing their utilization, especially in the field of oncology. It also presents and discusses types of epidemiological studies and data sources to which this type of analysis is applied. The authors take into account the difference between hospital-based or clinical series and population-based approaches. Interpretation of results is also discussed.
12053447	[Retrospective study on the incidence and cause of drop-out during intracavernous pharmaco-prosthesis therapy]	OBJECTIVE: We report a retrospective analysis of 394 patients affected by erectile dysfunction and enrolled in a self-injection program after a positive injection test with alprostadil or vasoactive mixture, evaluating the rate and the causes of drop-out. We analyzed these data in two different groups of patients, classified on the basis of the training received before home therapy. METHODS: 286 patients, included in group I, were trained in a single visit, in which the technique of injection was demonstrated on a rubber model. 108 patients, included in group II, were trained in a first office visit, consisting in demonstration and guided self-injection, and a home training trial of 3 self-injections, each followed by an office visit in which any questions or problems encountered during home therapy were discussed with the physician. All the patients enrolled in the self-injection program were contacted, after a follow-up of 2-8 years, and invited to an office visit or a phone interview, in order to answer to a questionnaire. RESULTS: 62% of the patients of group I had discontinued therapy. Among these inactive patients, 79% had ceased therapy during the initial four self-injections. The most commonly cited reason for attrition was ineffectiveness (61%), followed by recovery of spontaneous erectile activity (17%). Satisfaction rate with therapy in active patients was high, with 89% of patients reporting a score of 3 (satisfied) or 4 (very satisfied). Among the 99 patients of group II, only 4 had discontinued therapy. Two of them had dropped out because of a recovery of potency. A high rate of patients satisfied with therapy was observed also in this group (78%). CONCLUSIONS: Data provided by the patients enrolled in a self-injection protocol confirm alprostadil as a very effective and well tolerated therapeutic option for erectile dysfunction. The high drop-out rate registered during the initial period of therapy, and ineffectiveness as the most cited reason, underline the importance of a closer monitoring of patients in the early therapy in order to improve acceptance.
12054068	Bexxar (Corixa/GlaxoSmithKline).	Bexxar (131I tositumomab) is a radiolabeled anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody for the treatment of relapsed and refractory follicular/low-grade and transformed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It has shown high response rates with durable complete remissions in patients who have received either prior chemotherapy or rituximab (Rituxan, MabThera; IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corp/Genentech/F Hoffmann La Roche). Complications include myelosuppression, secondary acute leukemia, myelodysplasia and hypothyroidism. The role of this promising new agent is being defined in phase II and III trials. In February 2001, ABN Amro Predicted launch in 2001 and sales of US $25 million rising to US $70 million in 2003 [422363]. Corixa and GlaxoSmithKline anticipate a launch in the US in 2002 [424619].
12056921	Patients' subjective experiences of antipsychotics: clinical relevance.	The subjective experience of patients with schizophrenia who are receiving antipsychotic medication has been a neglected research area, as has the satisfaction of patients with their drug treatments. This is unfortunate, as satisfaction with treatment appears to be related strongly to the readiness of patients to take their medication as prescribed, and thereby to outcome. Patients' perceptions of their treatment do not appear to be related strongly to severity of illness or symptom ratings, although there are associations between perceptions of treatment and adverse effects. Surveys of patient experience with typical antipsychotics have tended to indicate high levels of dissatisfaction and perceived adverse effects. There have been a number of surveys of patients' perceptions of treatment with the atypical antipsychotics. These tend to accord with the expectation that a relative freedom from adverse effects with the atypical antipsychotics will be reflected in enhanced levels of satisfaction and perceived well-being. In general, these studies share a number of weaknesses, including small sample sizes, bias in selection of respondents, open treatment and lack of suitable comparator groups. In addition, many have adopted a cross-sectional, rather than longitudinal, approach and have relied on nonvalidated and perhaps idiosyncratic rating measures. Recently, there have been studies of better methodological quality. These, too, have indicated that patients regard the newer treatments more positively than the older regimens. In addition, there is now evidence that the various new-generation antipsychotics may be evaluated differently by patients.
12057182	[Perspectives on endocrine disruption]	Two decades ago, reports of alterations in the reproductive function of some wild animal species and clear evidence of human and animal exposure to chemical substances with hormonal activity agonist and antagonist generated what is known now as the hypothesis of endocrine disruption. This is an emerging environmental health problem that has challenged some of the paradigms on which the control and regulation of the use of chemical compounds is based. The need to include in routine toxicology tests new research objectives that specifically refer to the development and growth of species and to the homeostasis and functionality of hormonal systems, has served to complicate both the evaluation of new compounds and the re-evaluation of existing ones. The repercussions on regulation and international trade have not taken long to be felt. On both sides of the Atlantic, screening systems for endocrine disrupters have been designed and established, and research programmes have been launched to characterise and quantify adverse effects on human and animal health and to develop preventive measures.
12058599	[Echocardiographic examinations in unsedated racing pigeons (Columbia livia forma domestica) with special consideration for the physical training]	The heart of the bird is characterized by its enormous efficiency. Racing pigeons are bred for a long time for their flight performance. In the present study therefore the heart of 108 racing pigeons of the breed Bricoux were examined by means of echocardiography. The birds were either kept in aviaries (untrained) or as racing birds. The aim was to find out whether differences in the heart dimensions and/or the heart work occur between untrained and trained birds, like it is described already in humans and mammals (so-called athletic's heart). Significant differences between the two groups could be determined with different parameters, in particular with parameters, which affect the heart work. Thus it was for the first time possible to prove the formation of a athletic's heart in birds, and by that the adaptation of the avian heart to appropriate performance requirements.
12062831	Thrombophilia and pregnancy loss.	Thrombophilia is defined as a tendency to thrombosis. The association between specific thrombophilic defects--both inherited and acquired--and pregnancy loss is a rapidly developing field. However, apart from antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL), an acquired thrombophilic defect, the role of other defects in the haemostatic pathways remains to be established. In this invited review we discuss the recent advances in our understanding of aPL related pregnancy loss, the association between genetic thrombophilic mutations and pregnancy outcome and the role of whole blood haemostasis testing in the investigation of women with recurrent miscarriage.
12065101	Computed tomography determination of prostate volume and maximum dimensions: a study of interobserver variability.	OBJECTIVE: (1) To evaluate the reproducibility of prostate volume, maximum dimensions and geometrical center coordinates determination using computed tomography (CT) and (2) to identify patterns of interobserver variability. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty patients, suitable for our brachytherapy program, were selected for the study. All patients underwent CT scanning and the prostate volumes were determined by three radiation oncologists. Measurements of geometrical center coordinates, maximum organ dimensions in the anterior-posterior (AP), lateral (Lat) and longitudinal (Long) axes as well as prostate volumes were recorded. This yielded 840 measurements of seven variables for analysis. The means and corresponding standard deviations (SD) of each variable were calculated for each patient. The SDs were then averaged and presented as indices of dispersion. Average variations from the mean were also calculated for each observer along with the SDs. RESULTS: Analysis of the geometrical center coordinates revealed acceptable variability amongst observers. For the AP, Lat and Long coordinates the SDs were 0.78, 0.89 and 1.72 mm, respectively. The corresponding values for the maximum organ dimensions were 2.54, 2.72 and 4.43 mm, respectively. While the volumes outlined by observer B were less than or equal to the mean in 95% of cases and those of observer C were greater than or equal to the mean in 93% of cases, the volumes of observer A were equally distributed above and below the mean (48% in both cases). CONCLUSION: The determination of the geometrical center coordinates was reproducible amongst observers. The largest variations were seen with the Long axis. The volume determination is more variable. However, a characteristic trend was seen amongst observers when their volumes were compared to the mean volumes of the group.
12065123	Bone marrow ill-defined hyperintensities with tarsal coalition: MR imaging findings.	INTRODUCTION: To report the occurrence and pattern of ill-defined subchondral hyperintensities on Magnetic Resonance (MR) imaging in patients with talocalcaneal coalition (TCC). METHODS AND MATERIAL: MR imaging of both feet was performed in 10 consecutive patients with 14 TCCs. There were eight males and two females with ages ranging from 9-52 years (mean 25 years). Twelve of the 14 TCCs were symptomatic. MR imaging sequences included T1- and T2-weighted as well as STIR images. The images were evaluated for the presence, extent and location of ill-defined subchondral hyperintensities on MR images in the hindfoot. RESULTS: Ill-defined subchondral hyperintensities on MR imaging were present in 12 (86%) of the 14 hindfeet with TCCs. Two of these were without symptoms. No abnormalities were seen in two symptomatic hindfeet. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: In our series hyperintensities located in the subchondral bone adjacent to the coalition was relatively common in TCC. The presence of this specific pattern in the subchondral bone adjacent to the coalition may be indicative of tarsal coalition.
12074530	Neuroimaging in low back pain.	Patients commonly present to family physicians with low back pain. Because the majority of patients fully or partially recover within six weeks, imaging studies are generally not recommended in the first month of acute low back pain. Exceptions include patients with suspected cauda equina syndrome, infection, tumor, fracture, or progressive neurologic deficit. Patients who do not improve within one month should obtain magnetic resonance imaging if a herniated disc is suspected. Computed tomographic scanning is useful in demonstrating osseous structures and their relations to the neural canal, and for assessment of fractures. Bone scans can be used to determine the extent of metastatic disease throughout the skeletal system. All imaging results should be correlated with the patient's signs and symptoms because of the high rate of positive imaging findings in asymptomatic persons.
12074686	Cobalt cluster-containing carbonyl ylides for catalytic, three-component assembly of oxygen heterocycles.	[reaction: see text] A dicobalt hexacarbonyl (Co(2)(CO)(6)) cluster is essential for the unusually broad dipolarophile scope and for the sense and degree of diastereoselection in a catalytic, three-component synthesis of tetrahydrofurans and dihydrofurans. Likely involving a new class of carbonyl ylide, these cycloadditions are stereospecific with respect to the dipolarophile and exhibit high diastereoselectivity and regioselectivity in most cases. Differentiation of all four positions of the tetrahydrofuran can thus be accomplished in a triply convergent manner.
12075093	Uncoupling of virus-induced inflammation and anti-viral immunity in the brain parenchyma.	Non-neuroadapted influenza virus confined to the brain parenchyma does not induce antigen-specific immunity. Nevertheless, infection in this site upregulated major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and MHC class II expression and recruited lymphocytes to a perivascular compartment. T cells recovered from the brain had an activated/memory phenotype but did not respond to viral antigens. In contrast, T cells recovered from the brain after infection in a lateral cerebral ventricle, which is immunogenic, showed virus-specific responses. As with infectious virus, influenza virus-infected dendritic cells elicited virus-specific immunity when inoculated into the cerebrospinal fluid but not when inoculated into the brain parenchyma. Thus, inflammation and dendritic cell function were both uncoupled from immune priming in the microenvironment of the brain parenchyma and neither was sufficient to overcome immunological privilege.
12078351	Comparing apples with apples in clinical populations: applications of the adjusted Clinical Group System in British Columbia.	This article reviews the Adjusted Clinical Group Case-Mix System and describes how it is being applied in the management of physician services in British Columbia. Developed in the United States for management and research, adjusted clinical groups are used to measure the illness burden and health service needs of individuals and, when aggregated, of populations, by grouping the range of conditions coded on physician claims and hospital care records over a defined time period, typically one year. In Canadian and United States settings, adjusted clinical groups are up to five times more predictive of ambulatory resource use than are age and sex groups alone. The article describes how adjusted clinical groups are being applied to adjust capitation payments for physician groups in British Columbia's Primary Care Demonstration Project and profiles of physician practice activity.
12080454	The prediction of visceral fat by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry in the elderly: a comparison with computed tomography and anthropometry.	INTRODUCTION: Effective methods for assessing visceral fat are important to investigate the role of visceral fat for the increased health risks in obesity. Techniques for direct measurement of soft tissue composition such as CT or MRI are expensive, time-consuming or require a relatively high radiation dose. Simple anthropometric methods, such as waist-to-hip ratio, waist circumference or sagittal diameter are widely used. However, these methods cannot differentiate between visceral and subcutaneous fat and are less accurate. The aim of the present study is to investigate whether the dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) method, possibly combined with anthropometry, offers a good alternative to CT for the prediction of visceral fat in the elderly. METHODS: Subjects were participants in the Health ABC-study, a cohort study of black and white men and women aged 70-79, investigating the effect of weight-related health conditions on disablement. Total body fat and trunk fat were measured by DXA using a Hologic QDR 1500. A 10 mm CT scan at the L4-L5 level was acquired to measure visceral fat and total abdominal fat. Weight, height, sagittal diameter and waist circumference were measured using standard methods. Fat in a manually defined DXA subregion (4 cm slice at the top of iliac crest) at the abdomen was calculated in a sub-group of participants (n=150; 50% male; 45.3% Afro-American/54.7% Caucasian, age 70-79 y). This subregion, the standard trunk region and total fat were used as indicators of visceral fat. RESULTS: Total abdominal fat by DXA (subregion) was strongly correlated with total abdominal fat by CT (r ranging from 0.87 in white men to 0.98 in black women). The DXA subregion underestimated total abdominal fat by 10% compared to the CT slice. The underestimation by DXA was seen especially in people with less abdominal fat. The association of visceral fat by CT with the DXA subregion (r=0.66, 0.78, 0.79 and 0.65 for white and black men and women, respectively) was comparable with the association of the CT measure with the sagittal diameter (r=0.74, 0.70, 0.84 and 0.68). Combining DXA measurements with anthropometry gave only limited improvement for the prediction of visceral fat by CT compared to univariate models (maximal increase of r(2) 4%). CONCLUSION: DXA is a good alternative to CT for predicting total abdominal fat in an elderly population. For the prediction of visceral fat the sagittal diameter, which has a practical advantage compared to DXA, is just as effective.
12081716	Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD): feasibility of linkage analysis in a genetic isolate using extended and multigenerational pedigrees.	Segregation analyses converge in explaining the predisposition to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as the consequence of a major gene and exclude purely environmental or cultural transmission. As a result of the ADHD phenotype restrictions, collection of extended families or design of linkage studies using families has been extremely difficult and thus currently linkage studies have been performed using only concordant or discordant sib-pairs rather than large families. On the other hand, intergenerational studies are represented by the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) using trios. We collected pedigree data on ADHD from the Paisa community from Antioquia, Colombia, a genetic isolate. The goal of this study was to genetically map a putative gene predisposing to ADHD in a set of 27 multigenerational Paisa families. Here we present the results of a power simulation using SIMLINK to detect linkage of ADHD. ADHD was assumed to be a dichotomous trait with incomplete penetrance and a phenocopy rate of 3% in males and 0.2% in females. We simulated cosegregation of the trait and a marker locus in our pedigrees. We assumed Hardy-Weinberg and linkage equilibrium, equally frequent marker alleles and evaluated power at several recombination fractions between the trait and marker loci. Also, the ADHD trait was assumed to be genetically heterogeneous and different functions of age-dependent penetrance were simulated. We found exceptionally good power to detect linkage (expected LOD > 14 if theta is 0.1 or less), and that the presence of heterogeneity up to 50% does not affect substantially the projected LOD scores even for a theta recombination value of 0.05 (eLOD > 5.87). Having now obtained blood samples and confirmatory interviews in five families (representing 20% of the projected number of families), we performed a new analysis. The expected mean LOD in these five families reached values close to 10 and remained invariant when heterogeneity and different penetrance models were considered. We discuss the relative benefits of using extended and multigenerational families for genetic mapping studies as opposed to using nuclear families, affected sib pairs or sporadic cases which require the collection of over 1000 analytical units to get the same power exhibited by the small number of pedigrees described here.
12089454	A maximum-likelihood method for global-optimization-based structure determination from powder diffraction data.	A maximum-likelihood algorithm has been incorporated into a crystal structure determination from a powder diffraction data framework that uses an integrated-intensity-based global optimization technique. The algorithm is appropriate when the structural model being optimized is not a complete description of the crystal structure under study.
12090347	The effect of electromagnetic field on undescended testis after orchiopexy.	Undescended testis is a common problem leading to infertility. After orchiopexy some studies support the necessity of hormonal therapy. Electromagnetic field stimulation on living tissues increase cell proliferation, protein and DNA synthesis. Sixteen prepubertal rats was objected to the fixation of left testes to the anterior abdominal wall for 30 days, right testes were removed. Another group of sixteen rats objected only to the right orchiectomy and a manipulation simulating study group without fixation. After orchiopexy, animals were divided into two groups. Both groups had eight rats. Electromagnetic field (EMF) stimulation group had the stimulation for two hours every day for ten days, while the second group did not. The sham group also divided into two groups. The first one applied EMF and name as Group CEM, the second one was sham. Weight of removed testes were measured and fixed in 10% formaldehyde for histopathological evaluation. At the creating of undescended testis and right orchiectomies a blood sample was obtained for testosterone level of prepubertal rats. After finishing EMF stimulation the rats were mated with females for 17 days. After fertility study a blood sample was obtained for testosterone assay and body weight were measured and fixed in formaline for histopathologic evaluation. All the rats were killed with overdose ether anesthesia and number of fetuses were recorded. Histopathological evaluation was based on Johnsen criteria and seminiferous tubule diameter measurements. We conclude that EMF stimulation resulted in Leydig cell proliferation, increase in testosterone level, testis weight, but decrease in germ cell population.
12092189	[Clinical and biological study of acute diarrhea with mixed etiology in 48 patients]	OBJECTIVES: The study of incidence, clinical manifestation and treatment of acute diarrhea with mixed etiology. MATERIAL AND METHOD: Study of 48 patients with acute diarrhea with mixed etiology admitted in the Hospital of Infectious Diseases of Iai during 1995-1998. RESULTS: 12 cases (24%) were mixed bacterial infections with the following microorganisms associations: Salmonella + Shigella (10 cazuri); Salmonella + Yersinia enterocolitica (1 case); Salmonella + Rotavirus (1 case). 16 cases (44%) had mixed digestive infections with parasites, in double or triple associations: Giardia intestinalis + Ascaris lumbricoides (10 cases); Giardia intestinalis + Ascaris lumbricoides + Entamoeba coli (1 case); Giardia intestinalis + Enterobius vermicularis (3 cases); Ascaris lumbricoides + Trichiuris trichiura (2 cases). The rest of 20 cases presented mixed infections with bacteria and parasites: Salmonella + Rotavirus + Giardia (2 cases), Salmonella + Shigella + Giardia intestinalis or Ascaris lumbricoides (6 cases), Salmonella + Giardia intestinalis (8 cases); Salmonella + Entamoeba coli (3 cases); Shigella + Trichiura trichiuris + Entamoeba coli (1 case). The majority was male patients from rural areas with age between 5 month and 56 years, the majority being children, 4 cases were found in immunosupressed patients. The clinical symptomatology was dominated by diarrheal syndrome (100%) and the diagnosis was established by clinical characters and confirmed by coproculture and parasitologic exam. The ethiological therapy was guided by antibiogram, in the majority of cases we used fluorochinolones (associated with ceftriaxone in severe cases), together with antiparasitic medications. CONCLUSIONS: In this study predominated the bacterial and parasitic infections, most frequently being isolated Salmonella, Shigella and Giardia intestinalis; the therapy associated fluorochinolones with antiparasitic medication.
12115088	Risk Factors Associated with Helicobacter pylori Infection among Children in a Defined Geographic Area.	Factors influencing the pattern of Helicobacter pylori infection among children living in adjacent urban and rural areas of northern Sardinia, Italy, were compared. The seroprevalence of H. pylori infection was 22% (625 of 2810 children) in the study population and was significantly higher among children in rural areas (37%) than in urban areas (13%) (odds ratio [OR], 3.8; 95% confidence interval [CI], 3.2-4.7; P&lt;.005). This difference was consistent within each age group. In rural areas, children who had dogs were at greatest risk for H. pylori infection (OR, 1.8; 95% CI, 1.3-2.6; P&lt;.05). No association was seen between H. pylori seropositivity and a history of breast-feeding. Urban children attending day care centers had a higher prevalence of infection (17%) than did those who never attended (12%) (OR, 1.5; 95% CI, 1.1-2.0; P&lt;.05). The epidemiology of H. pylori infection is complex; even within the same geographic area, different factors influence acquisition of H. pylori infection.
12120800	The accessibility of characters in single sentences: proper names, common nouns, and first mention.	Accessibility of characters in two-character sentences (e.g., The butler helped Calvin at the wedding reception) was investigated with a probe recognition task. Probes were either the first character (e.g., butler) or the second character (e.g., Calvin) in a sentence and were designated by proper names or common nouns crossed with name or noun nonprobes. Results show that (1) probes in first position are more accessible than those in second position, but not when noun probes are paired with name nonprobes, (2) characters designated by names are generally more accessible than those designated by nouns, and (3) the first name in a sentence is more available than other characters, regardless of position. Thus, accessibility of characters in a sentence seems dependent on discourse function, with named characters seen as main characters, rather than on nondiscourse-related factors, such as temporal distinctiveness.
12125032	Enantioselective chromatography of alkyl derivatives of 5-ethyl-5-phenyl-2-thiobarbituric acid studied by semiempirical AM1 method.	Complexation of alkyl derivatives of 5-ethyl-5-phenyl-2-thiobarbituric acid (2-thiophenobarbital) enantiomers by beta-cyclodextrin was investigated by the AM1 method. The inclusion complexes of beta-cyclodextrin with neutral and anionic forms of these enantiomers have been modeled and energetically optimized. The chiral discrimination of enantiomers was analyzed in terms of differences in the interaction energies. The calculated interaction energies between each enantiomer of the investigated 2-thiobarbiturates and beta-cyclodextrin confirm the ability of beta-cyclodextrin to act as a mobile phase additive in reversed-phase HPLC to separate enantiomers by liquid chromatography and rationalize their order of elution.
12125535	King's theory as foundation for an advance directive decision-making model.	This article discusses the utilization of King's conceptual system, transaction process model, and theory of goal attainment as foundations for an advance directive decision-making model. Research has shown nurses may be educationally unprepared, experience conflicts between beliefs and actions, or resist the responsibility to address advance directives and end-of-life issues. Nurses, especially nurse practitioners providing primary care, are in positions to facilitate the process. By understanding and incorporating this model into practice, both the nurse and the client may achieve mutual goal attainment resulting in both increased client autonomy and Patient Self-Determination Act compliance.
12126054	Comparative anatomical study of the m. retractor bulbi with special reference to the nerve innervations in rabbits and dogs.	Detailed dissection was performed on eight head halves of four rabbits and six head halves of three dogs in order to investigate the nerve distributions to the m. retractor bulbi. Our observations indicated that the muscle was innervated by the branches of the abducens nerve in all sides which were examined in the present study. In addition, we observed that the ventral ramus of the oculomotor nerve gave rise to branches to the m. retractor bulbi in three sides of the rabbits, and in two sides of the dogs, which suggests that the innervation pattern of the muscle is variable even in the identical species. Considering these observations, we propose that the anlage of the m. retractor bulbi is mainly composed of the anlage innervated by the abducens nerve, and occasionally the anlage innervated by the ventral ramus of the oculomotor nerve is added to it, because the anlage of the m. retractor bulbi may be formed near the border region between the anlages innervated by the oculomotor and abducens nerves.
12127198	The validity of drug use self-reports among hard core drug users in a household survey in Puerto Rico: comparison of survey responses of cocaine and heroin use with hair tests.	The extent to which underreporting of drug use in household surveys affects the validity of epidemiological studies of drug use disorders is largely unknown. We developed a list of known hard core drug users as part of a larger household study in Puerto Rico. The known drug users were recruited and interviewed with the same procedures used for the respondents selected through area-probability sampling. Upon completion of the interview, subjects were asked to provide a sample of scalp hair. A total of 78 hair specimens were collected from the known drug users. Hair specimens were screened for cocaine and heroin using radio immunoassay, and confirmed using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Using the cutoff of 0.2 ng/mg of hair, 93.2% of the hair specimens were classified positive for cocaine and 75.7% for heroin. With the hair test results as the gold-standard, we calculated specificity and sensitivity statistics as measures of the validity of self-reports. Self-reports of drug use in the past 3 months had a specificity of 78% or higher for both drugs. The sensitivity of self-reports was 69.6% for reports of recent cocaine use and 78.6% for reports of recent heroin use. Sensitivity increased with reports of use in more remote time periods, among subjects reporting DSM-IV drug disorder symptoms, and among those reporting use of both drugs. The results suggest that while drug reports of hard core drug users interviewed in household surveys might be more valid than those of the general population, there still remains considerable under-reporting.
12131692	Acute cellular rejection in liver transplant recipients under cyclosporine immunosuppression: predictive factors of response to antirejection therapy.	BACKGROUND: Predictive factors of response to antirejection therapy in acute cellular rejection (ACR) in liver transplantation are not well established. METHODS: To investigate the possible existence of these factors, we reviewed 111 consecutive episodes of ACR fulfilling the following criteria: histologically confirmed ACR; cyclosporine-based immunosuppression; initial antirejection treatment with high-dose steroid boluses; minimum follow-up of 2 weeks after treatment; and no other graft complication interfering with evaluation of therapeutic response. ACR episodes not responding to initial steroid therapy were given additional treatment (OKT3 and/or repeated steroid boluses). We analyzed the association of the response to the antirejection treatment with different clinical, laboratory, histological, and donor-recipient compatibility variables at two times: after the initial antirejection therapy, and after all the antirejection therapy administered. RESULTS: Eighty episodes of ACR (72%) resolved after the initial therapy with high-dose steroid boluses, and another 18 (16%), initially steroid-resistant, resolved with additional antirejection treatment. Thirteen episodes (12%) were refractory to all antirejection treatment administered. Variables with independent predictive value of nonresponse to initial therapy with steroid boluses were late-onset ACR (>2 months after transplantation), high serum bilirubin and alanine aminotransferase, low blood cyclosporine concentration in the week before antirejection treatment, and severe histological endothelialitis. Late-onset ACR and high serum bilirubin were also independent predictors of refractoriness to all the treatment administered. CONCLUSIONS: Response to antirejection treatment in ACR in liver transplantation can be predicted by several clinical and laboratory data. ACR episodes with factors predictive of therapeutic unresponsiveness could benefit from more aggressive antirejection treatment.
12139062	High-resolution colocalization of single dye molecules by fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy.	Conventional fluorescence microscopy can be used to determine the positions of objects in space when those objects are separated by distances greater than several hundred nanometers, as restricted by the diffraction limit of light. Fluorescence microscopy/spectroscopy based on fluorescence resonance energy-transfer techniques can be used to measure separation distances below approximately 10 nm. To fill the gap between these fundamental limits, we have developed an alternative technique for high-resolution colocalization of fluorescent dyes. The technique is based on fluorescence lifetime imaging. Under favorable conditions, the method can be used to distinguish, and to measure the distance between, two dye molecules that are less than 30 nm apart. To demonstrate the method, lifetime images of a mixture of Cy5 and JF9 (rhodamine derivative) molecules statistically adsorbed on a glass surface were acquired and analyzed. Since these two molecular species differ in fluorescence lifetime (for Cy5, tau(f) = 2.0 ns, and for JF9, tau(f) = 4.0 ns), it is possible to assign the contribution of fluorescence of the two dye types to each image pixel using a pattern recognition technique. Since both dye types can be excited using the same laser wavelength, the measurement is free of chromatic aberrations. The results presented demonstrate the first high-precision distance measurements between single conventional fluorescent dyes based solely on fluorescence lifetime.
12140286	Illumination of the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum alters intracellular pH. Implications for live cell imaging.	Live cell fluorescence microscopy has been widely used to study physiological processes in the human malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum, including pH homeostasis, Ca(2+) signaling and protein targeting. However, the reproducibility of the data is often poor. Controversial statements exist regarding cytosolic and vacuolar baseline pH, as well as regarding the subcellular localization of some of the fluorochromes used. When trying to reproduce published baseline values, we observed an unexpected light sensitivity of P. falciparum, which manifests itself in the form of a strong cytoplasmic acidification. Even short exposure times with moderate to low light intensities caused the parasite cytosol to acidify. We show that this effect arises from the selective disruption of the parasite's acidic food vacuole, brought about by lipid peroxidation initiated by light-induced generation of hydroxyl radicals. Our data suggest that heme serves as a photosensitizer in this process. Our findings have major implications for the use of live cell microscopy in P. falciparum and add a cautionary note to previous studies where live cell fluorometry has been used to determine physiological parameters in P. falciparum.
12141581	Professional strategies of medical officers of health in the post-war period--1: 'innovative traditionalism': the case of Dr Ian MacQueen, MOH for Aberdeen 1952-1974, a 'bull-dog' with the 'hide of a rhinoceros'.	Recent policies concerning the enhancement of preventive medicine and health improvement have raised important questions about leadership in public health and have emphasized the roles that can be played by local authorities. In this light, it is worth exploring the activities undertaken by local authority Medical Officers of Health (MOsH), until their posts were abolished in 1974. The process leading to 1974 has often been blamed, at least partly, on the complacency, lack of imagination and demoralization of MOsH. However, when John Welshman asked the question 'watchdog or lapdog?' of the MOH, in a paper published in 1997, he concluded there was little justification for the latter label. This paper considers the career of Ian MacQueen, Aberdeen's last MOH, who is well known for the criticisms of his handling of the Aberdeen typhoid outbreak in 1964, which appeared in the report of an official enquiry. He was deemed to have made excessive use of the media and to have turned the outbreak into an event approaching a national crisis. However, in the context of MacQueen's 32 year career in Aberdeen, his use of the media during the typhoid outbreak was no aberration. Rather, it was characteristic of his determination to maintain an important role for the MOH within the NHS-era health services. There is therefore continuity between MacQueen's strategy and the ambitions of many MOsH before the NHS, who hoped for a unified health service with themselves occupying a leading role. MacQueen's actions during the typhoid outbreak also reflected his innovative activities in the field of health education, and his interest in the media for that purpose. In conclusion, MacQueen provides an example of an MOH who cannot be charged with complacency and resignation to a declining role: rather, his strategy of 'innovative traditionalism' sought to protect and extend his department's services.
12143353	Seizure-induced neuronal death in the immature brain.	The response of the developing brain to epileptic seizures and to status epilepticus is highly age-specific. Neonates with their low cerebral metabolic rate and fragmentary neuronal networks can tolerate relatively prolonged seizures without suffering massive cell death, but severe seizures in experimental animals inhibit brain growth, modify neuronal circuits, and can lead to behavioral deficits and to increases in neuronal excitability. Past infancy, the developing brain is characterized by high metabolic rate, exuberant neuronal and synaptic networks and overexpression of receptors and enzymes involved in excitotxic mechanisms. The outcome of seizures is highly model-dependent. Status epilepticus may produce massive neuronal death, behavioral deficits, synaptic reorganization and chronic epilepsy in some models, little damage in others. Long-term consequences are also highly age- and model-dependent. However, we now have some models which reliably lead to spontaneous seizures and chronic epilepsy in the vast majority of animals, demonstrating that seizure-induced epileptogenesis can occur in the developing brain. The mode cell death from status epilepticus is largely (but not exclusively) necrotic in adults, while the incidence of apoptosis increases at younger ages. Seizure-induced necrosis has many of the biochemical features of apoptosis, with early cytochrome release from mitochondria and capase activation. We speculate that this form of necrosis is associated with seizure-induced energy failure.
12144116	Elimination of bleeding associated with urinary catheterization in neonates.	Three cases of hematuria associated with urinary catheterization in infant males in this NICU over a year prompted an investigation by the health care team. The team tracked catheterizations in the unit, conducted a national survey, and did a literature review. Based on their findings, the team revised the unit policy and procedure and evaluated new products. After changes were implemented, the incidence of hematuria--originally at 20.7 percent--dropped to 5.5 percent during the first evaluation period and to zero during a second follow-up period.
12145237	Prevalence of insulin resistance syndrome in southwestern France and its relationship with inflammatory and hemostatic markers.	OBJECTIVE: To assess the prevalence and relationships of insulin resistance syndrome (IRS) with inflammatory and hemostatic markers in a representative sample of the population of Southwestern France aged 35-64 years. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, data were collected from 597 men and 556 women and were assessed regarding BMI, blood pressure, total and HDL cholesterol levels, triglyceride level, glucose level, plasma insulin level, white blood cell count, fibrinogen level, factor VII level, von Willebrand factor, C-reactive protein level, soluble intercellular adhesion molecule, soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, and soluble CD(14). Insulin resistance was defined by homeostasis model assessment > or =3.8. RESULTS: Prevalence of IRS was higher in men than in women (23 vs. 12%, respectively; P &lt; 0.001) and increased with age in both sexes (9, 24, and 34% for age groups 35-44, 45-54, and 55-64 years, respectively, for men and 4, 10, and 21% for women). After adjusting for age, alcohol consumption, tobacco smoking, and also for menopause in women, subjects (men and women) with IRS had significantly higher white blood cell count, factor VII levels, coagulating factor VII levels, and C-reactive protein levels than the other subjects. In men, further increases in soluble intercellular adhesion molecule and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 were noted, whereas in women, the differences were borderline significant. Conversely, no differences were found in fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor, and soluble CD(14) in both sexes. CONCLUSIONS: IRS is relatively common in residents of Southwestern France and is related to a deleterious increase in hemostatic and inflammatory parameters.
12149300	Treatment with ibritumomab tiuxetan radioimmunotherapy in patients with rituximab-refractory follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	PURPOSE: Rituximab is commonly used as a single agent or in combination therapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Ibritumomab tiuxetan radioimmunotherapy targets the same antigen as rituximab and has demonstrated efficacy in rituximab-nave NHL. This study evaluated ibritumomab tiuxetan in the treatment of rituximab-refractory follicular NHL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eligible patients were refractory to rituximab; this was defined as no objective response to rituximab (375 mg/m(2) weekly for 4 weeks) or time to progression (TTP) of &lt; or = 6 months. The ibritumomab tiuxetan treatment regimen consisted of pretreatment with rituximab (250 mg/m(2) intravenously on days 1 and 8) to deplete peripheral blood B cells, then yttrium-90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (0.4 mCi/kg; maximum, 32 mCi) intravenously on day 8, administered on an outpatient basis. An imaging/dosimetry dose of indium-111 ibritumomab tiuxetan (5 mCi) was injected after rituximab (day 1) in 28 patients. RESULTS: Fifty-seven patients were treated. The median age was 54 years, 74% had tumors > or = 5 cm, and all were extensively pretreated (median, four prior therapies; range, one to nine). The estimated radiation-absorbed doses to healthy organs were below the study-defined limit in all patients studied with dosimetry. The overall response rate for the 54 patients with follicular NHL was 74% (15% complete responses and 59% partial responses). The Kaplan-Meier-estimated TTP was 6.8 months (range, 1.1 to > or = 25.9 months) for all patients and 8.7 months for responders. Adverse events were primarily hematologic; the incidence of grade 4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia was 35%, 9%, and 4%, respectively. CONCLUSION: Ibritumomab tiuxetan radioimmunotherapy is effective in rituximab-refractory patients. The only significant toxicity is hematologic.
12149896	Evidence-based practice.	This article provides an insight into the philosophical assumptions underpinning evidence-based practice (EBP). Lois Goding and Keith Edwards believe that EBP has often been adopted within nursing, midwifery and health visiting without careful consideration of the nature of such evidence. This article explores the issues surrounding different research methodologies and methods, in particular the dichotomous relationships between positivism, constructivism and postmodernism. The authors believe that nursing involves complex, intangible human behaviour that demands an interpretative, holistic approach investigating perceptions rather than a reductionist approach.
12150483	An IgG antibody response to the antigen 85 complex is associated with good outcome in Mexican Totonaca Indians with pulmonary tuberculosis.	SETTING: It is generally accepted that antibodies do not protect against Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, as this role relies upon T-cell reactivity. Hence, most studies on antimycobacterial antibodies have been aimed at developing serologic tests, and few explore their role in disease pathogenesis. OBJECTIVE: To determine the IgG antimycobacterial antibody response of 55 Mexican Totonaca Indians with pulmonary tuberculosis and its correlation with some features of the disease. DESIGN: Study of the profile of antigen recognition by immunoblot and ELISA with isolated antigen 85 complex (Ag85) and whole culture filtrate proteins. Correlation of immunoblot and ELISA results with BCG vaccination, tuberculin reactivity, extent of the disease, clinical setting, and response to treatment. RESULTS: On immunoblot, band reactivity was very poor and the most frequently recognized antigen was the 30-32 kDa, antigen 85 complex (45.8% of serum samples). ELISA with this antigen showed a sensitivity of 72% and a specificity of 100%. Positive antibody titers to Ag85 were observed in 79.4% of patients with non-cavitary tuberculosis (P = 0.012) and in 95.8% of patients who were cured with anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy (P = 0.0001). By contrast, an antibody response to whole culture filtrate antigens had no correlation with the presence of cavitations or with prognosis. CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that an antibody response to Ag85, aside from having great potential to develop a serologic test for tuberculosis, was associated with a positive outcome in a cohort of tuberculous Mexican Indians.
12151237	Host-specific incompatibility by 9-bp direct repeats indicates a role in the maintenance of broad-host-range plasmid RK2.	Broad-host-range incompatibility group P (IncP) plasmids RK2 and R751 have 9-bp direct repeats (DR) of unknown function located between their kilC and kilE loci. The nucleotide sequences of the 9-bp repeats are different for RK2 (an IncPalpha group plasmid) and R751 (IncPbeta group), but both DR regions are organized similarly, including an 11-bp spacer with identical 5'-CGCCA-3' cores and an adjacent binding site for KorB, a known partition protein and transcriptional repressor. The occurrence of similarly arranged DR elements with different repeat sequences is suggestive of an important plasmid-specific function for the DR regions. Here we show that the cloned RK2 DR region in trans to RK2 exhibits a host-specific incompatibility phenotype, in which RK2 is destabilized in Pseudomonas aeruginosa but not in Escherichia coli. Incompatibility was not dependent on the adjacent KorB-binding site. Deletion of the kilE locus, which is required for stable maintenance in P. aeruginosa, did not abolish DR-mediated incompatibility. Precise deletion of DR from RK2 had no effect on maintenance but eliminated sensitivity to DR in trans, showing that incompatibility requires DR to be present on both plasmids. These results raise the possibility that the DR region may be involved in a plasmid maintenance system for P. aeruginosa that is independent of the known stability functions on RK2.
12152817	Cryptococcosis in a llama (Lama glama).	Cryptococcosis was diagnosed in a 17-year-old male llama that had been euthanatized following an acute onset of neurologic disease. Tissues affected included the brain, spinal cord, lung, and kidney. The character of the leukocytic response varied from minimal to pyogranulomatous. Cryptococcosis has not been previously reported in a llama, although the infection has been described in 2 other species of New World camelids. The pathogenesis of cryptococcosis is briefly reviewed.
12152997	Monitoring of donor/recipient T-cell engraftment kinetics in myeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation using short tandem repeat amplification from cell lysates.	Molecular monitoring of donor/recipient T-cell kinetics early post-transplant can provide clues to the immunological events that govern host-versus-graft reaction (HVGR) and graft versus-host-disease (GVHD). We have previously used fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with X and Y probes to monitor recipient T (R-T) cell clearance early after myeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation (ASCT). We demonstrated that impaired clearance of residual host-T-cells in the early days post-transplant was associated with graft rejection, while enhanced clearance could be an indicator of increased donor anti-host alloreactivity and predictive of acute GVHD. Although FISH is the most accurate quantitative molecular tool for the determination of the exact donor/recipient-T-cell numbers at any time points post-transplant, it has the disadvantage of being limited to sex mismatched donor/recipient pairs. Our goal was to develop a molecular approach that, irrespective of gender, would be comparable to FISH in accurately determining host residual T-cell clearance after myeloablative conditioning for ASCT. We have genotyped DNA from cell lysates using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of short tandem repeats (STR) with fluorescently labeled oligonucleotide primers, and used the Genescan 672 software for accurate quantitative analysis of the amplified alleles. Here, we show that this approach allowed us to achieve in T-cells accurate quantitative analyses of amplified donor/recipient alleles in sex matched patients on days +5, +8 and +12 post-transplant, despite severe leukopenia.
12154153	A randomized, double-blind, crossover study of methylphenidate and lithium in adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: preliminary findings.	The authors examined the efficacy of methylphenidate (MPH) and lithium to treat attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults, using a randomized, double-blind, crossover design. Patients received 8 weeks of MPH treatment (up to 40 mg/day) and 8 weeks of lithium treatment (up to 1,200 mg/day), by random assignment. Independent evaluators blind to group assignment assessed response every 2 weeks and at the end of each phase. The primary outcome measure was the Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scale sum score for the clusters of hyperactivity, impulsivity, and learning problems. Secondary outcome measures were scores of irritability, overt aggression, antisocial behavior, anxiety, and depression, and scores on tests of verbal learning and sustained attention. In this preliminary study, lithium and MPH produced similar improvements on the primary outcome measure and on measures of irritability, aggressive outbursts, antisocial behavior, anxiety, and depression.
12159567	Recent European immigration to the Chicago metropolitan area.	Patterns of European migration to the Chicago metropolitan area are examined to determine the urban spatial distribution of various ethnic groups.  Data are from petitions of 1,185 male immigrants 18 years old and over from Greece, Italy, Poland, and Yugoslavia who applied for U.S. citizenship between June 2, 1975, and June 1, 1976.  It is found that the majority of those studied chose to live within the city of Chicago.  It is suggested that &quot;residential locations of relatives, availability of low-cost housing, religious affiliations, proximity and access to employment opportunities, and avoidance of Black and Hispanic neighborhoods...were involved in the decision of where to reside.&quot;  (summary in FRE, SPA)
12159934	Elastic constant measurement of Ni-base superalloy with the RUS and mode selective EMAR methods.	This paper reports the elastic constants of the Ni-base single crystal superalloy (TMS-26) with a rafted (lamellar) structure having tetragonal symmetry. The elastic constants have been measured at room temperature with the resonance ultrasound spectroscopy method and the mode-selective electromagnetic acoustic resonance method. The value of the elastic constant C33 (250.4 GPa) is almost equal to that of c11 (252.5 GPa), which indicates that the rafted structure virtually has the elastic anisotropy of cubic system.
12162291	[Late results of immediately loaded interforaminal implants]	The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the late results of immediately loaded implants in the interforaminal area of edentulous mandibles treated with implant-supported overdentures. the study initially included 44 patients who received a total of 176 ITI implants (4 interforaminal implants per patient) of which 233 patients with 89 implants were controlled (drop out of 21 patients). Immediately after the operation a bar was fixed to the implants and loaded with a retained overdenture. The patients were followed from a minimum of 8 to a maximum of 18 years (average of 12.2 years). Three implants were lost. Five implants didn't pass the criteria of success. The results of this study show that the success rate of immediately loaded implants in the interforaminal region is similar to secondarily loaded implants. According to these data, the often demanded healing phase of four months is not necessary.
12163595	Role of an essential triloop hairpin and flanking structures in the 3' untranslated region of Alfalfa mosaic virus RNA in in vitro transcription.	The minus-strand promoter of Alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV), a tripartite plant virus belonging to the family Bromoviridae, is located within the 3'-terminal 145 nucleotides (nt), which can adopt a tRNA-like structure (TLS). This contrasts with the subgenomic promoter for RNA4 synthesis, which requires approximately 40 nt and forms a single triloop hairpin. Detailed analysis of the minus-strand promoter now shows that a similar triloop hairpin, hairpin E (hpE), is crucial for minus-strand synthesis. The loop sequence of hpE appeared to not be essential for RNA synthesis, whereas the identity and base-pairing capability of bases below the triloop were indeed essential. Reducing the size of the bulge loop of hpE triggered transcription from an internal site similar to the process of subgenomic transcription. Similar effects were observed when deleting (part of) the TLS, suggesting that tertiary contacts between hpE and the TLS prevent internal initiation. The data indicate that the minus-strand promoter hpE and the subgenomic promoter hairpin are equivalent in binding the viral polymerase. We propose that the major role of the TLS is to enforce the initiation of transcription by polymerase at the very 3' end of the genome.
12164884	Insulin resistance and glomerular hemodynamics in essential hypertension.	BACKGROUND: Arterial hypertension is an important cause of end-stage renal failure. Insulin has been shown to modify glomerular hemodynamics in hypertensive subjects. The aim of this work, therefore, was to observe the relationships between renal hemodynamics and insulin resistance in arterial hypertension. METHODS: Sixty-two non-diabetic hypertensive patients and 25 healthy normal subjects were studied. Renal plasma flow and the glomerular filtration fraction were determined by renoscintigraphy and the insulin sensitivity by an oral glucose test. RESULTS: Renal plasma flow in hypertensive subjects was lower than expected and was related to pressure values, whereas the mean glomerular filtration rates were not different in the two groups. In most patients the filtration fraction was higher than expected. A lower glomerular filtration rate and lower filtration fraction were found in patients with higher insulin resistance. CONCLUSIONS: The progressive decrease of glomerular function in subjects with hypertension is linked with insulin-resistance.
12171819	Effect of continuous positive airway pressure on the measurement of thoracoabdominal asynchrony and minute ventilation in children anesthetized with sevoflurane and nitrous oxide.	STUDY OBJECTIVE:s: To quantify thoracoabdominal asynchrony (TAA) in children during anesthesia, and to measure the effect of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) on TAA, tidal volume (VT), and minute ventilation (E). DESIGN: Prospective, nonrandomized, controlled study. SETTING: Operating room of a university children's hospital. PARTICIPANTS: Ninety children aged 2 to 9 years scheduled for elective outpatient day surgery who were enrolled prospectively. METHODS: Each subject was anesthetized with sevoflurane 3% in equal parts O2 and N2O while breathing spontaneously through a facemask. Respiratory impedance plethysmography was used to calculate TAA indexes (phase angle [PA], phase relation in inspiration [PhRIB], phase relation in expiration, phase relation in total breath [PhRTB], and ratio of the inspiratory time to the total duration of the respiratory cycle [TI/TTOT]), VT, and E. Tidal gas flows were measured with a dual-hotwire anemometer with the sensor inserted between the facemask and the Y-piece of the anesthetic breathing circuit. This enabled the volume calibration of the respiratory impedance plethysmography equipment. The following conditions were compared: (1) no CPAP, (2) CPAP of 5 cm H2O, and (3) CPAP of 10 cm H2O. RESULTS: Eighty-one children completed the study protocol. All measurements of TAA with an inspiratory component (PA, PhRIB, PhRTB, and TI/TTOT) decreased significantly from baseline with the addition of CPAP to the circuit. Application of CPAP of 10 cm H2O decreased significantly mean VTs and Es compared with CPAP of 5 cm H2O and no CPAP. There were no differences in TAA for all conditions when comparing children scheduled for adenoidectomy with other surgical procedures. CONCLUSIONS: With spontaneously breathing anesthetized children, TAA decreases with the application of CPAP. CPAP of 5 cm H2O was as effective as CPAP of 10 cm H2O in reducing PA, PhRIB, PhRTB, and TI/TTOT. However, CPAP of 10 cm H2O also caused a significant decrease in VT and E.
12174346	Automated endocardial border detection and evaluation of left ventricular function from contrast-enhanced images using modified acoustic quantification.	Automated border detection (ABD) techniques have been used for the quantitative assessment of left ventricular (LV) performance but require adequate visualization of the endocardial border to accurately track the blood-tissue interface. We sought to evaluate whether ABD could be used in conjunction with an infusion of echocardiographic contrast to objectively quantify LV systolic performance. Twenty-one subjects had LV volume and ejection fraction (EF) assessed by hand-tracing and prototype ABD software during contrast infusion. The mean hand-traced EF was 45% +/- 16%. Automatic tracking of contrast-enhanced endocardial borders with prototype ABD software was possible in all subjects. This allowed generation of signal averaged LV volume waveforms, from which quantitative LV ejection fraction was obtained. There were no significant differences in LV volumes or EF between contrast-enhanced acoustic quantification and manually traced borders. This technique has the potential of providing objective quantitation of LV volume and function in patients with technically limited echocardiograms.
12184057	The role of immune cells infiltrating the kidney in the pathogenesis of salt-sensitive hypertension.	This work summarizes recent evidence that suggests that renal infiltration with immune cells plays a role in the pathogenesis of salt-sensitive hypertension. The presence of immunocompetent cells is a conspicuous finding in conditions associated with hypertension induced or maintained by a high salt intake. Studies in models of salt-sensitive hypertension following angiotensin II infusion and nitric oxide synthesis inhibition indicate that a reduction in the tubulointerstitial infiltration of lymphocytes and macrophages during the induction period results in protection from the subsequent development of salt-sensitive hypertension. Reduction of the renal immune infiltrate in spontaneously hypertensive rats results in near normalization of the blood pressure. The reduction in the immune infiltrate is associated with a reduction in the number of cells expressing angiotensin II (some of which are immune cells) and a reduction in renal oxidative stress. Since increased intrarenal angiotensin activity tends to reduce filtered sodium and increase sodium reabsorption, and the tubulointerstitial damage resulting from oxidative stress can induce a shift to the right in the pressure-natriuresis relationship, these findings suggest potential mechanisms by which the immune infiltrate could induce or worsen salt-driven hypertension.
12191955	Using illusory line motion to differentiate misrepresentation (Stalinesque) and misremembering (Orwellian) accounts of consciousness.	It has been suggested that the difference between misremembering (Orwellian) and misrepresentation (Stalinesque) models of consciousness cannot be differentiated (Dennett, 1991). According to an Orwellian account a briefly presented stimulus is seen and then forgotten, whereas by a Stalinesque account it is never seen. At the same time, Dennett suggested a method for assessing whether an individual is conscious of something. An experiment was conducted which used the suggested method for assessing consciousness to look at Stalinesque and Orwellian distinctions. A visual illusion, illusory line motion, was presented and participants were requested to make judgments that reflected what they were aware of. The participants were able to make responses indicating that they were aware of the actual stimulus in some conditions, but only of the illusion in others. This finding supports a claim that the difference between the Orwellian and Stalinesque accounts may be empirically observable and that both types of events may occur depending on task and stimulus parameters.
12192124	On the symmetry of simple 12- and 13-hedra.	The symmetry point groups for all combinatorially non-isomorphic simple 12- and 13-hedra (7595 and 49566, respectively) are contributed in the paper for the first time. The most symmetrical polyhedra with automorphism group orders not less than 3 are drawn as Schlegel diagrams and characterized by the facet symbols and symmetry point groups.
12192532	Quality of life and patient satisfaction after reoperation for primary hyperparathyroidism: analysis of long-term results.	Morbidity after reoperation for persistent or recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is higher than after primary surgery. According to our experience, there is a contrast between postoperative normalization of laboratory parameters and the quality of life/patient satisfaction after reoperation. Therefore the aim of the study was to analyze the outcomes of reoperations in comparison to primary surgery. We evaluated the patients' reported quality of life using the SF-36 (an accepted health status assessment tool) and complete prospectively documented perioperative and follow-up data including postoperative complications. Additionally, we searched for reasons why primary surgical intervention did not succeed. In a prospective cohort study the perioperative data of 653 consecutive patients with pHPT, including 75 reoperated patients (11.5%) who underwent parathyroidectomy between 1987 and 1999, were evaluated by uni- and multivariate analysis. At a median 78 months (6-156 months) postoperatively, all patients underwent a planned follow-up that included the SF-36, physical examination, and laboratory investigations. A total of 51 reoperated patients were available for follow-up. Postoperative alleviation of symptoms or being symptom-free was reported by 70.6%. Patients after reoperation had lower SF-36 scores in all health domains postoperatively than patients after a primary operation. Of the reoperated patients, 19.6% stated that after evaluating the development of their complaints they would not consent to reoperation again. Subgroup analysis showed that 80% of patients with postoperatively persistent pHPT, 60% of those who did not observe symptom alleviation, and 44% of those after sternotomy were in the group of dissatisfied patients. Surprisingly, none of the patients with more than one reoperation, only two of the five patients with permanent recurrent laryngeal nerve injury, and only one of the four patients with persistent hypoparathyroidism were dissatisfied overall. Parathyroidectomy resulted in normocalcemia in 90.2% of the reoperated patients, with an operative morbidity of 27.4% and no mortality. After an unsuccessful operation for pHPT, patients should be treated at an expert center to avoid persistent hypercalcemia. Reoperations necessitating sternotomy should be restricted to patients with severe symptoms and signs.
12192544	An update on thyroid surgery.	Surgery has been the treatment of choice for many disorders of the thyroid gland, both benign and malignant, for many decades. However, surgery has not been invariable but has continued to change in accordance with research results. In benign cases, surgery has generally evolved to be as organ preserving as possible. In several instances, however, a more radical extent of resection seems justified in order to ensure that the risk of recurrence is as low as possible. For instance, total thyroidectomy may be beneficial in patients with endemic multinodular goitre or young patients with Graves' disease and accompanying cold nodules or high levels of autoantibodies. Several tools, e.g. magnifying glasses, bipolar coagulation forceps and neuromonitoring, are available to identify and preserve the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the parathyroid glands, hence keeping the morbidity at a low level. Most recently, minimally invasive surgery has been successfully used in treating both benign and malignant disorders of the thyroid gland. In the case of malignant disorders, minimally invasive surgery may become an attractive alternative to open surgery if a limited surgical extent is justified, e.g. in patients with micro-PTC (papillary thyroid carcinoma, diameter less than 1 cm). Whether a limited surgical approach is also justified in other cases, e.g. in any patient with intrathyroidal PTC or patients with micro-FTC (follicular thyroid carcinoma), remains to be shown and is the subject of ongoing investigations. One of the most intriguing recent discoveries is the identification of genotype-phenotype correlations in patients with hereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma. In these patients, the timing and extent of surgery may depend not only on the patient's age and serum levels of the tumour marker calcitonin but also on the specific germline RET proto-oncogene mutation. Surgery will certainly continue to play an important role in the treatment of thyroid diseases and may be increasingly based on individual findings instead of general recommendations.
12195087	Interventional nuclear medicine in the prevention of restenosis following angioplasty.	Restenosis is an unsolved clinical and economic limitation of angioplasty. Local irradiation is a new concept to overcome this problem. The magnitude of this health problem becomes apparent when one recognizes that 166132 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedures were performed in Germany in 1999. Each angioplasty has subsequent costs of 6384 DM, which can be reduced to 2161 DM by 50% restenosis reduction due to irradiation [1]. The number of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures is growing by at least 10% per year.
12197453	Identification of a claims data &quot;signature&quot; and economic consequences for treatment-resistant depression.	BACKGROUND: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a debilitating condition with significant economic consequences. Conservative estimates indicate that between 10% and 20% of all individuals with MDD are treatment resistant. The objectives for this study were (1) to use current treatment strategies identified in the literature to evaluate the validity of studying treatment-resistant depression (TRD) using claims data and (2) to estimate cost differences between TRD-likely and TRD-unlikely patients identified by use of treatment patterns. METHOD: The data source consisted of medical, pharmaceutical, and disability claims from a Fortune 100 manufacturer for 1996 through 1998 (N = 125,242 continuously enrolled beneficiaries between the ages of 18 and 64 years). The sample included individuals with medical or disability claims for MDD (NMDD = 4186). A treatment pattern algorithm was applied to classify adult MDD patients into TRD-likely (NTRD = 487) and TRD-unlikely groups. Resource utilization and costs were compared among TRD-likely and TRD-unlikely patients and a random sample of average beneficiaries (i.e., 10% of all beneficiaries) for 1998. RESULTS: Consistent with the epidemiologic literature, the algorithm classified 12% of the MDD sample as TRD-likely. Mean annual costs were $10,954 for TRD-likely patients, $5025 for TRD-unlikely patients, and $3006 for average beneficiaries. TRD-likely patients used almost twice as many medical services as did TRD-unlikely patients and incurred significantly greater indirect costs (p &lt; .0001). CONCLUSION: It is feasible to use an administrative dataset to develop a claim-based treatment algorithm to identify TRD-likely patients. Resource utilization by TRD-likely patients was substantial, not only for direct treatment of depression but also for treatment of comorbid medical conditions. Additionally, TRD imposed on employers substantial indirect costs resulting from high rates of depression-associated disability.
12197645	Short-range synthetic aperture imaging at 633 nm by digital holography.	We present an active optical synthetic aperture-imaging system. A phase-step digital holographic setup is used as a wavefront sensor in the far field. The overlap of the holograms enables the estimation and compensation of their relative positions and phase with a speckle cross-correlation algorithm. Experimental results on a short-range synthetic aperture setup at 633 nm are presented that are based on 128 x 128 holograms. The synthesis is executed in one direction by means of rotation of the object. Test images show a significant gain of resolution in the synthesis direction. Processing errors are estimated through experiment. Random processing errors of a synthetic pupil composed of 33 merged holograms are negligible, but biases induced by unknown optical aberrations ofthe reference wave induce defocusing and astigmatism.
12197888	T-cell reactivity to glutamic acid decarboxylase in stiff-man syndrome and cerebellar ataxia associated with polyendocrine autoimmunity.	Antibodies to glutamic acid decarboxilase (GAD-Abs) are present in the serum of 60-80% of newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes (DM1) patients and patients with autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome (APS) associated with DM1. Higher titre of GAD-Abs are also present in the serum of 60% of patients with stiff-man syndrome (SMS) and all reported patients with cerebellar ataxia associated with polyendocrine autoimmunity (CAPA). Several studies suggest that GAD-Abs may play a critical role in the pathogenesis of SMS and CAPA but little is known about T-cell responsiveness to GAD-65 in these neurological diseases. To analyse cell-mediated responses to GAD, we studied the peripheral blood lymphocyte proliferation and cytokine responses to recombinant human GAD-65 in 5 patients with SMS, 6 with CAPA, 9 with DM1, 8 with APS and 15 control subjects. GAD-65-specific cellular proliferation was significantly higher in SMS than in CAPA, DM1, APS or controls. In contrast, only T cells from CAPA patients showed a significantly high production of interferon-gamma after GAD stimulation, compared to all other patients and controls. No differences were found for IL-4 production. These results suggest that, despite similar humoral autoreactivity, cellular responses to GAD are different between SMS and CAPA, with a greater inflammatory response in CAPA, and this difference may be relevant to the pathogenesis of these diseases.
12204736	Surgical treatment of complex cardiac anomalies: the 'one and one half ventricle repair'.	OBJECTIVE: One and one half ventricle repair is a surgical option for congenital cardiac anomalies characterised by right ventricle (RV) hypoplasia and/or dysplasia. METHODS: From March 1994 to March 2001, eight patients (mean age 9.1 years, range 7 months to 35 years) with hypoplastic and/or dysplastic RV underwent correction of their intracardiac anomaly in association with a BCPS (one and one half ventricle repair). Preoperative diagnoses included: Ebstein's anomaly of tricuspid valve (TV) in two, inlet ventricular septal defect (VSD) in association with straddling/overriding TV in two patients, pulmonary atresia-intact ventricular septum in one, tertralogy of Fallot in association with complete atrioventricular canal defect in one, truncus arteriosus in one and heterotaxy syndrome with VSD and anomalous systemic venous return in one. Four patients underwent previous surgery which included: main pulmonary artery (MPA) banding in two patients, pulmonary valvotomy, central shunt and right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction in one, pulmonary artery separation from truncus arteriosus and modified Blalock-Taussig shunt in one, and MPA closure in one. Two patients underwent a bidirectional cavo-pulmonary shunt before the one and a one half ventricle repair. Associated cardiac lesions were treated simultaneously. RESULTS: There were no hospital deaths. All the patients were discharged home in good clinical conditions. There were no late deaths or reoperations. At mean follow-up of 29.8 months (range 8 months to 7.3 years) all the patients are alive and in good general conditions. MPA percutaneous balloon dilation was performed in two patients at 33 and 4 months, respectively, both after MPA reconstruction (which was previously ligated) and dilation of the left pulmonary artery branch in one patient, repeated twice at 10 and 14 months from repair, for a hypoplastic left pulmonary artery after truncus arteriosus repair. CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment of congenital cardiac anomalies in the presence of a hypoplastic and or a dysplastic RV by means of one and one half ventricle repair has the advantage of reducing the surgical risk for biventricular repair, and compared to the Fontan circulation, it maintains a low right atrium pressure, a pulsatile pulmonary blood flow and improves the systemic oxygen saturation. Short and medium-term results are promising. Longer follow-up is needed, to prove the efficacy of such a repair, in the long term.
12205249	Home visiting by paraprofessionals and by nurses: a randomized, controlled trial.	OBJECTIVE: To examine the effectiveness of home visiting by paraprofessionals and by nurses as separate means of improving maternal and child health when both types of visitors are trained in a program model that has demonstrated effectiveness when delivered by nurses. METHODS: A randomized, controlled trial was conducted in public- and private-care settings in Denver, Colorado. One thousand one hundred seventy-eight consecutive pregnant women with no previous live births who were eligible for Medicaid or who had no private health insurance were invited to participate. Seven hundred thirty-five women were randomized to control, paraprofessional, or nurse conditions. Nurses completed an average of 6.5 home visits during pregnancy and 21 visits from birth to the children's second birthdays. Paraprofessionals completed an average of 6.3 home visits during pregnancy and 16 visits from birth to the children's second birthdays. The main outcomes consisted of changes in women's urine cotinine over the course of pregnancy; women's use of ancillary services during pregnancy; subsequent pregnancies and births, educational achievement, workforce participation, and use of welfare; mother-infant responsive interaction; families' home environments; infants' emotional vulnerability in response to fear stimuli and low emotional vitality in response to joy and anger stimuli; and children's language and mental development, temperament, and behavioral problems. RESULTS: Paraprofessional-visited mother-child pairs in which the mother had low psychological resources interacted with one another more responsively than their control-group counterparts (99.45 vs 97.54 standard score points). There were no other statistically significant paraprofessional effects. In contrast to their control-group counterparts, nurse-visited smokers had greater reductions in cotinine levels from intake to the end of pregnancy (259.0 vs 12.32 ng/mL); by the study child's second birthday, women visited by nurses had fewer subsequent pregnancies (29% vs 41%) and births (12% vs 19%); they delayed subsequent pregnancies for longer intervals; and during the second year after the birth of their first child, they worked more than women in the control group (6.83 vs 5.65 months). Nurse-visited mother-child pairs interacted with one another more responsively than those in the control group (100.31 vs 98.99 standard score points). At 6 months of age, nurse-visited infants, in contrast to their control-group counterparts, were less likely to exhibit emotional vulnerability in response to fear stimuli (16% vs 25%) and nurse-visited infants born to women with low psychological resources were less likely to exhibit low emotional vitality in response to joy and anger stimuli (24% vs 40% and 13% vs 33%). At 21 months, nurse-visited children born to women with low psychological resources were less likely to exhibit language delays (7% vs 18%); and at 24 months, they exhibited superior mental development (90.18 vs 86.20 Mental Development Index scores) than their control-group counterparts. There were no statistically significant program effects for the nurses on women's use of ancillary prenatal services, educational achievement, use of welfare, or their children's temperament or behavior problems. For most outcomes on which either visitor produced significant effects, the paraprofessionals typically had effects that were about half the size of those produced by nurses. CONCLUSIONS: When trained in a model program of prenatal and infancy home visiting, paraprofessionals produced small effects that rarely achieved statistical or clinical significance; the absence of statistical significance for some outcomes is probably attributable to limited statistical power to detect small effects. Nurses produced significant effects on a wide range of maternal and child outcomes.
12206272	Cervical metastasis of unknown origin: a series of 72 patients.	Cervical metastasis of unknown origin is still a challenging problem because of its relatively poor prognosis and the uncertainty regarding the primary site. We analyzed retrospectively all 72 patients with cervical metastases of unknown origin, diagnosed and treated between 1985 and 1995 in the five university hospitals of Finland in order to analyze survival rates and some prognostic and clinical factors of the disease. The most common sites where the primary tumor was found during follow-up or at autopsy were the lung (8%), the oral and pharyngeal region (7%) and the skin (6%). When the lower neck nodes (regions IV-VI) were affected, the primary tumor was significantly (p &lt; 0.001) more often found from the subclavicular sites. The disease-specific 5-year survival rate was 32%. In multivariate analysis, nodal stage N2c or N3 [adjusted relative hazard of death (HR) 2.43], other metastases found at the time of treatment (HR 2.15) and age > 65 years (HR 2.12) were significantly associated with a poor prognosis. Median survival tended to be longer for patients treated with surgery combined with radiotherapy (39.9 months) compared with those treated with radiotherapy alone (16.8 months), but this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.153).
12207141	Brain perfusion in autism varies with age.	Our subjects consisted of 14 autistic individuals and 14 controls ranging in age from 3 to 37 years. A (99m)Tc HMPAO single photon emission computed tomogram (SPECT) was used to examine blood flow variations between autistic subjects, compared to an age- and gender-matched control group. We found significant hypoperfusion in the prefrontal areas of autistic individuals as compared to normals in every case (p &lt; 0.01). As the age of the autistic individuals increased the hypoperfusion of verbal-associated areas in the left temporal lobe and frontal areas became more evident. The findings were significant at the p &lt; 0.001 level. The changes in perfusion over time correlated with language development and acquisition as individuals matured. We conclude that autistic individuals have a deficiency in prefrontal areas associated with word identification and language formation skills. This subsequently prevents development of true verbal fluency and development in the temporal and frontal areas associated with speech and communication.
12211750	Diagnosis of chronic hepatitis.	In this brief review the basic information concerning diagnosis of chronic hepatitis is presented. The evaluation of patient with chronic hepatitis must consider a number of possible etiologies. In some chronic hepatitis cases hepatic injury may be due to more than one agent. Because the clinical signs of chronic hepatitis are not characteristic or the course of disease may be asymptomatic special attention should be dedicated to biochemical, immunological and virological tests. The most sensitive and specific tests and techniques should be used in differential diagnosis. The knowledge about extrahepatic manifestations of liver diseases, mainly due to immunological disorders, is also very important. However, the role of liver biopsy in chronic hepatitis cases is essential to confirm the diagnosis and indicate the possible etiology.
12213422	Retrograde intramedullary nailing of supracondylar femoral fractures: design and development of a new implant.	Since 1992 we have developed an implant in which the distal (condylar) screws have a diagonal configuration so that the screws can be closer to the distal end of the nail, allowing more distal fractures to be fixed. It also utilises the denser bone of the posterior condyles for more secure fixation in osteoporotic patients. The new implant was used for 24 extra-articular fractures from September 1994 to September 1997, and for 14 articular fractures from February 1995 to December 2000. There was no significant difficulty with obtaining fixation in very distal fractures and in osteoporotic bone. Early weightbearing was encouraged in those with extra-articular fractures. All fractures united within 3 months except one which required a bone graft (but no revision of implant) at 6 months. Average knee flexion at final followup was 101 degrees for extra-articular fractures and 106 degrees for articular fractures. Complications included quadriceps adhesions requiring further surgery in two patients who had open fractures, and malunion in one patient who had an early design of the implant and a 4.5mm condylar screw broke. Nine patients required late removal of condylar screws due to local soft tissue irritation.
12215329	Transabdominal ultrasound-guided embryo transfer does not increase pregnancy rates in oocyte recipients.	OBJECTIVE: To determine whether transabdominal ultrasound guidance during embryo transfer (ET) is a useful tool for increasing pregnancy rates in patients undergoing oocyte donation.DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, controlled trial.SETTING: In vitro fertilization academic center.PATIENT(S): Three hundred seventy-four infertile patients undergoing oocyte donation.INTERVENTION(S): Transabdominal ultrasound-guided ET.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): We measured the pregnancy rate and implantation rate after transabdominal ultrasound-guided ET versus the rates in a control group who did not receive transabdominal ultrasound-guided ET.RESULT(S): Clear visualization at ultrasound during ET was achieved in 90.8% of the patients who had ultrasound-guided ET. A similar number of easy transfers were performed in both the ultrasound-guided and the control groups (84.5% vs. 86.6%). The pregnancy rate was comparable between the groups (59.9% ultrasound vs. 55.1% control), as was the implantation rate (30.6% ultrasound vs. 26.3% control). No differences were found in the miscarriage rate (10.7% ultrasound vs. 9.1% control) or in the multiple pregnancy rate (21.4% ultrasound vs. 22.5% control). Although all ectopic pregnancies occurred in the group that did not receive ultrasound guidance, the differences were not statistically significant (0 vs. 2.7%).CONCLUSION(S): We could not show any benefit in terms of pregnancy rate in oocyte recipients for whom ET was performed under direct transabdominal ultrasound visualization of the endometrial cavity. There was a lower ectopic pregnancy rate when ultrasound guidance was used, but this rate was not statistically significant in comparison with the pregnancy rate without ultrasound guidance.
12220304	Molecular Adsorbent Recirculating System: clinical experience in patients with liver failure based on hepatitis B in China.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of treatment with the Molecular Adsorbent Recirculating System (MARS) on liver failure based on HBV. In 25 patients (median age, 36.3 years, range, 22-67 years, bilirubin level > 255 micro mol/l) admitted with liver failure based on HBV, the 6-8h MARS intermittent treatments were performed without any adverse events, A significant decrease in bilirubin, ammonia and urea levels were observed (P &lt; 0.05). All patients achieved a remarkable neurologic recovery, particularly 2 HE-III and 3 HE-IV patients regained normal consciousness, respectively. The survival rate for the patients whose treatments kept to the MARS art strategy was 76.9% (10/13), while the others only had the survival rate of 16.7% (2/12) due to their giving up sequential MARS treatments after the first time. The rebounding rate of the bilirubin level in the patients after a single MARS treatment was significantly lower than that of patients, who underwent a single plasma-exchange treatment (P &lt; 0.01). It is concluded that MARS method can contribute to the optimistic treatment of liver failure patients based on HBV which being the major epidemic liver disease in China.
12224186	Neurovascular assessment.	The outcome of an injured extremity is affected primarily by initial assessment and immediate treatment of the extremity. Delaying the recognition of neurovascular compromise can cause the amputation of an extremity, or even the death of the patient. However, having the foundation of knowledge regarding total neurovascular function can equip the nurse with accurate assessment skills and the knowledge of the need for immediate action. This essential orthopaedic knowledge is used daily by the orthopaedic nurse to provide the best patient care possible with the best possible outcome.
12232942	Issues in bioethics. Teaching medical ethics to health professionals.	New medical technologies, public concern about medical ethics, and the advent of numerous ethical dilemmas in healthcare have led many medical schools to increase their formal teaching of ethics. Ethical issues in healthcare may involve a complex mix of scientific, economic, social, cultural, religious, moral and legal issues. Education in medical ethics will therefore need to be on-going to accommodate changes that periodically occur in healthcare issues, policies, or the changing moral values of the society. This article proposes frameworks within which this process may occur.
12232945	Paediatric HIV/AIDS in Jamaica. A hospital-based description.	The continuing worldwide epidemic of adult HIV/AIDS has led to an increase in the number of HIV-positive children mainly through perinatal transmission. Although national data are available, there is no published report of the epidemiology of HIV/AIDS in children in Jamaica. A multicentre retrospective analysis of 183 HIV seropositive children admitted to hospitals in Jamaica between 1990 and 1996 was conducted. Ages at diagnosis were available for 172 patients with 61% diagnosed in the first year of life. Clinical histories were available for 129 patients with the primary presenting symptoms of infected children being failure to thrive, pneumonia, diarrhoea, dermatitis and lymphadenopathy. Classification was possible in 128 patients: 49 were exposed, 76 were infected and three were seroreverters. Infected children had a longer hospital stay than those classified as exposed or seroreverters. As of December 31, 1997, 125 patients had defaulted, nine patients were alive and 51 were reported dead with a median age of death of 12 months. From these data, it is estimated that the hospital-based HIV incidence among children in Jamaica increased from 0.149 per 10,000 person years in 1990 to 1.331 per 10,000 person years in 1996. This study demonstrates a rise in the estimated incidence of HIV/AIDS but we were unable to estimate survival reliably since the data required were not available for 75% of children identified. These data highlight the urgent need for targeted interventions to reduce vertical transmission of HIV as well as a need for prospective studies to establish reliable data on incidence and long-term outcome for HIV-infected children.
12235179	Inheritance of cholesterol metabolism of probands with high or low cholesterol absorption.	Heredity of cholesterol absorption and synthesis was studied in siblings of hypercholesterolemic probands with low and high serum cholestanol to cholesterol ratio (assumed to indicate low and high absorption of cholesterol, respectively). Cholesterol synthesis was assayed with sterol balance technique and measuring serum cholesterol precursor to cholesterol ratios (synthesis markers of cholesterol), and cholesterol absorption with measuring dietary cholesterol absorption percentage and serum plant sterol and cholestanol to cholesterol ratios (absorption markers of cholesterol). In the siblings of the low absorption families, cholesterol absorption percentage and ratios of absorption markers were significantly lower, and cholesterol and bile acid synthesis, cholesterol turnover, fecal steroids and ratios of synthesis markers significantly higher than in the siblings of the high absorption families. The ratios of absorption and synthesis markers were inversely interrelated, and they were correlated with cholesterol absorption and synthesis in the siblings. In addition, low absorption was associated with high body mass index, low HDL cholesterol, and serum sex hormone binding globulin levels, suggesting that low absorption was associated with metabolic syndrome. Intrafamily correlations were significant for serum synthesis markers, cholestanol, triglycerides, and blood glucose level. In conclusion, cholesterol absorption efficiency and synthesis are partly inherited phenomena, and they can be predicted by the ratios of non-cholesterol sterols to cholesterol in serum.
12236351	Metal complexation of thiacrown ether macrocycles by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry.	In the present study, electrospray ionization mass spectrometry is used to evaluate the metal-binding selectivities of an array of novel caged macrocycles for mercury(II), lead(II), cadmium(II), and zinc(II) ions. In homogeneous methanol/chloroform solutions as well as extractions of metals from aqueous solution by macrocycles in chloroform, it is found that the type of heteroatom (S, O, N), cavity size, and presence of other substituents influence the metal selectivities. Several of the macrocycles in this study bind mercury ion very selectively and efficiently in the presence of many other metal ions and have an avidity toward mercury that was tunable by the size and combination of heteroatoms in the macrocycle ring and the number of cage groups attached. The extraction mechanism was further investigated by determining the variation in extraction selectivity as a function of the counterions of the mercury salts.
12265040	Estimation of migration profiles in England and Wales.	&quot;Migration profiles by age have been increasingly used in the analysis of migration data, and a theoretical function has been developed by researchers at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA).  This paper refines the approach by applying the principles of maximum likelihood to the estimation of the coefficients for the function.  This enhances the statistical basis and in particular enables [the authors] to carry out tests of similarity between different areas on the basis of the calibrated coefficients.  The method is applied to 1971 Census data for the local authorities of England and Wales.&quot;
12266158	Computerized commodity management system in Thailand and Brazil.	Thailand's National Family Planning Program is testing a computerized contraceptive commodity reporting management in 4 provinces with 104 National Family Planning Program (NFPP) reporting entities.  Staff in the Brazilian Association of Family Planning Entities (ABEPF) and CPAIMC, a major family planning service agency, have been trained in the use of a computerized commodity distribution management system and are ready to initiate test use.  The systems were designed in response to specific commodity management needs of the concerned organizations.  Neither distribution program functions as a contraceptive social marketing (CSM) program, but each system reviewed has aspects that are relevant to CSM commodity management needs.  Both the Thai and Brazilian systems were designed to be as automatic and user friendly as possible.  Both have 3 main databases and perform similar management and reporting functions.  Differing program configurations and basic data forms reflect the specific purposes of each system.  Databases for the logistics monitoring system in Thailand arethe reporting entity (or ID) file; the current month's data file; and the master balance file.  The data source is the basic reporting form that also serves as a Request and Issue Voucher for commodities.  Editing functions in the program check to see that the current &quot;beginning balance&quot; equals the previous month's ending balance.  Indexing functions in the system allow direct access to the records of any reporting entity via the ID number, as well as the sequential processing of records by ID number.  6 reports can be generated:  status report by issuing entity; status report by dispensing entity; aggregate status report; out of compliance products report; out of compliance outlets report; and suggested shipment to regional warehouse report.  Databases for the distribution management system in Brazil are:  the name-ID (client institution) file; the product file; and the data file.  The data source is an order form that contains a client code similar to the code used in Thailand.  An interrogative data entry program enhances the management function of the system.  8 reports can be individually issued:  a status report on back orders by product; a status report on back orders by institution and product; a historical report of year to date shipments and value by product; a historical report of year to date shipments by client and product; year to date payment reports from each client; outstanding invoices by month for the previous 12 months; a product report showing the amount of each product or order with outstanding invoices; and a stock position report.
12285969	Population density pattern and change in the city of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.	&quot;This paper examines and assesses the changes in the population density pattern in the city of Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia where the city has undergone dramatic changes in its physical as well as its social structure.  Analysis of data revealed a decline in population density at an exponential rate from the city center with variation between city sectors and zones.  The city's rapid horizontal expansion and dispersal of population is the result of factors such as increases in city population and in size and number of single family dwellings, widening of streets, rise in income and residential mobility rates, mass use of automobiles, change in family size, zoning regulations, leapfrogging, and huge governmental city development projects.&quot;
12289529	Order on the guidance file provided for in Article L. 162-3 of the Public Health Code, 29 December 1987.	Guidance files (dossiers-guides) are intended for physicians practicing in the department; in public and private hospital establishments; in family planning and family education centers; in establishments providing family information, advice, or education; in social services; and in other agencies approved by French departmental authorities responsible for health and welfare matters.  The Annex sets out, on the one hand, conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy (the legislation on voluntary termination of pregnancy, procedures to be followed, medical data, consultations following voluntary termination of pregnancy and contraception, and the costs of termination of pregnancy) and, on the other, the availability of assistance for women deciding to carry their pregnancy to term.
12290076	[Stable multiregional population as a tool for economic analysis. An application to Italy, 1977-1986]	&quot;The intensity of short-term fluctuations in a population's demographic behaviour is often overshadowed by a force of inertia resulting from the structures inherited from past behaviour.  Stable population theory produces an effective way to eliminate this 'weight of the past'. This article presents the results of an application of this approach in analyzing changes in the fertility, migration and mortality regime of the Italian population during the 1977-1986 period.&quot; (SUMMARY IN ENG AND SPA)
12296510	High breast cancer incidence rates among California teachers: results from the California Teachers Study (United States).	OJECTIVE: To determine risk factor profiles and cancer incidence rates among participants in the California Teachers Study (CTS), a study designed to document high breast cancer incidence rates of California teachers and to investigate emergent hypotheses in the etiology of breast and other cancers. METHODS: The CTS is a prospective study of 133,479 California female teachers and administrators, established in 1995-1996 with members of the California State Teachers Retirement System completing a detailed mailed questionnaire regarding possible risk factors for breast and other cancers. Cancer outcomes were identified by linkage with the California Cancer Registry. RESULTS: CTS participants have a 51% higher age-standardized invasive breast cancer incidence rate and a 67% higher in-situ breast cancer incidence rate than would be expected based on race-specific statewide rates after three years of follow-up. CTS participants also have substantially elevated rates of endometrial cancer (rate ratio, RR = 1.72), ovarian cancer (RR = 1.28), melanoma (RR = 1.59), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (RR= 1.53), and leukemia (RR = 1.28), but low rates of invasive cervix cancer (RR = 0.53) and lung cancer (RR = 0.66). CONCLUSIONS: CTS members have high rates of several major cancers, particularly breast cancer, and low rates of lung and cervix cancer. Although late age at first birth can explain a portion of the observed excess risk of breast cancer in this cohort, the unique risk factor profile of CTS members may account for much of their higher risk of breast and selected other cancers. The CTS offers a rich resource for future studies of cancer risk and of women's health, in general.
12297353	Buffer administration during CPR promotes cerebral reperfusion after return of spontaneous circulation and mitigates post-resuscitation cerebral acidosis.	To explore the effects of alkaline buffers on cerebral perfusion and cerebral acidosis during and after cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), 45 anaesthetized piglets were studied. The animals were subjected to 5 min non-interventional circulatory arrest followed by 7 min closed chest CPR and received either 1 mmol/kg of sodium bicarbonate, 1 mmol/kg of tris buffer mixture, or the same volume of saline (n=15 in all groups), adrenaline (epinephrine) boluses and finally external defibrillatory shocks. Systemic haemodynamic variables, cerebral cortical blood flow, arterial, mixed venous, and internal jugular bulb blood acid-base status and blood gases as well as cerebral tissue pH and PCO(2) were monitored. Cerebral tissue acidosis was recorded much earlier than arterial acidaemia. After restoration of spontaneous circulation, during and after temporary arterial hypotension, pH in internal jugular bulb blood and in cerebral tissue as well as cerebral cortical blood flow was lower after saline than in animals receiving alkaline buffer. Buffer administration during CPR promoted cerebral cortical reperfusion and mitigated subsequent post-resuscitation cerebral acidosis during lower blood pressure and flow in the reperfusion phase. The arterial alkalosis often noticed during CPR after the administration of alkaline buffers was caused by low systemic blood flow, which also results in poor outcome.
12297733	Selective endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms using micrus microcoils: preliminary results in a series of 78 patients.	PURPOSE: To determine the safety and reliability of a new platinum microcoil (Micrus), in the treatment of intracranial aneurysms. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-eight patients (28 male and 50 female patients; age range, 28-83 years; mean age, 44 years) with 80 intracranial aneurysms were treated in 10 centers in Belgium and France. All aneurysms were smaller than 15 mm. Nine aneurysms (11%) were located in the posterior circulation and 71 (89%) in the anterior. Fifty aneurysms (63%) were ruptured and 30 (37%) unruptured. Micrus microcoil is a new platinum coil. It is electrically detached with a time of detachment close to 5 seconds. RESULTS: The degree of occlusion of the aneurysm was classified as total in 49 aneurysms (61%), subtotal in 28 cases (35%) and incomplete in 3 cases (4%). Technical complications were encountered in 10 patients (13%) including parent artery occlusion and thromboembolism (4 cases), coil migration (2 cases) and non-detachment of the coil (2 cases). The immediate morbidity rate was 1.3% and mortality rate 1.3%. CONCLUSION: Micrus microcoils are effective and safe in the selective treatment of ruptured and unruptured intracranial aneurysms. Spherical microcoils are helpful to create a good basket in the aneurysmal sac at the beginning of treatment.
12309781	The Indonesian family planning program: its strategy for the future.	This paper discusses the strategy of the Indonesian national family planning program for the coming 5-10 years, in which communities will be given greater responsibility for their own fertility limitation programs and a stronger alliance with other government programs will be sought in order to assure the long-term success of both family planning and development activities.  The article explains why more vigorous fertility limitation efforts will be required in the future despite encouraging results so far, and describes the structure of the Indonesian national family planning program.  The rationale behind the move away from clinics as depensers of family planning services is examined, and the community family planning approach in Bali is described and compared to that in Java.  The differing approach to service delivery in the Outer Islands is then discussed.  The relationship between development and the small family norm is discussed, and efforts underway to maximize cooperation between the family planning and development sector projects are described.
12315004	[Proximate determinants of fertility in Cuba.  The Bongaarts model]	&quot;The results of the implementation of the Bongaarts method for quantitating the effects of [proximate] determinants on fertility are presented.  The model used is of the multiplicative kind and relates the global fertility rate to the so called natural fertility rate.  Thus, it is possible to quantitate and separate the effect of each determinant and thus find out what factors have been responsible for the rapid change in fertility [in Cuba] from 1972 on.  The determinant of highest impact on the fertility level attained in each province was assessed.  The most important results point [to] the use of contraceptives as the cause for the rapid decline in the fertility level and the married state as the variable conditioning provincial differences.&quot; (SUMMARY IN ENG AND FRE)
12318246	Decisions on strengthening management of marriage and preventing early marriage and early childbearing.	On 6 April 1992, the Government of Shaanxi Province issued Regulations concerning early marriage and early childbearing in Shaanxi Province.  These Regulations contain 23 articles and have the objective of preventing early marriage and early childbearing.  First priority is given to promotion and education among the public, with &quot;auxiliary measures and economic disincentives as auxiliary means when necessary.&quot;  See China Population Today, Vol. 9, No. 3, June 1992, p. 14.
12318840	Language, videos and family planning in the South Pacific.	In 1984, women in Fiji, Kiribati, the Solomon Islands, and Tonga wanted culture-specific, educational resources on sexuality, family planning, contraception, reproduction, and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). Family Planning Australia [FPA] found video to be the most appropriate means to present information on these topics, since video continues the story-telling tradition of the Pacific.  Women worked with FPA to produce videos addressing these topics.  They were filmed in Fiji, which has a broad cross-section of South Pacific people.  FPA took into account women's concerns and cultural and religious sensitivities.  The English language videos were Better Safe, a story about STDs, condom use, and male sexual responsibility; Taboo Talk, a documentary about women's attitudes on menstruation, sex education, and family planning; AIDS and the South Pacific, about AIDS transmission and prevention; a d Down There, an animated documentary on reproduction and contraceptive methods.  A project evaluation revealed that the videos would have received wider acceptance had they been in local languages.  Local men and women debated each work of a translation of the list of reproductive health terms, eventually resulting in 20 culturally and linguistically appropriate video translations.  A cross section of national language speakers modified and improved the draft translation of the 4 scripts. This whole process resulted in incorporation of the 88 reproductive health terms into the Booklet of South Pacific Reproductive Health Words and Phrases.  The project showed that Pacific women were able to compile a booklet of culturally and linguistically acceptable terms and to successfully translate the scripts of health videos.  In conclusions, people tend to be more willing to accept sexuality information and frank and explicit material than is usually believed if they are allowed to determine the context in which they receive it.
12342615	Promoting family planning for better health: policy and programme implications.	Renewed emphasis is being given to the role of family planning health care programs.  This review of the lessons learned during the past decade provides guidance to policy makers and program managers on ways to improve maternal, infant, and child health through family planning and related health and development activities.  It covers policies and laws, accessibility to services, acceptability and quality of services, provision for the special needs of high-risk groups, the use of communications programs, the importance of improving the status of women and the quality of life, and the resources needed to implement such a program globally.  Practical steps for integrating family planning fully into maternal and child health care are described.
12346137	New survey finds fertility decline in India.	A brief indication was provided of demography, fertility, and contraceptive usage and knowledge based on the recent 1992/93 Indian National Family Health Survey.  The sample included 88,562 households and 89,777 ever married women aged 13-49 years in 24 states and the National Capital Territory of Delhi.  About 38% of household members were aged under 15 years.  The sex ratio was 944 females to 100 males.  54% aged over 5 years were currently married; 10% were widowed, divorced, or separated.  43% were literate and 9% had secondary or higher education: 67% for females in cities and 34% in rural areas.  Female literacy was 82% in Kerala but under 30% in Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh.  During 1990-92, the crude birth rate was 28.9 per 1000 population.  Total fertility was 3.4 for women aged 15-49 years:  3.7 in rural and 2.7 in urban areas.  31% of parents had been sterilized.  26% desired no more children.  Only 6% of women with four or more children desired another child.  99% of urban and 95% of rural respondents had knowledge of at least one modern or traditional method.  Female and male sterilization were the most well-known modern methods.  47% of women had ever used contraception: 42% with a modern method and 12% with a traditional method.  41% were current users of family planning: 36% with a modern and 4% with a traditional method (45% in urban and 33% in rural areas with a modern method).  The highest contraceptive use was in Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Punjab states and Delhi (over 50%).  The two most populous states, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, had the lowest rates, which were under 25%; other low usage was in Assam and several small northeastern states.  75% of all female modern contraceptive use was female sterilization.  12% in urban and 3% in rural areas used a modern spacing method.  Use increased with increased educational level.  Rural sources of supply emphasized public facilities: sterilization and IUDs.
12346745	Public Act No. 59 (1987), 23 June 1987.	This Act provides the following: &quot;Notwithstanding any other provision of this act, an abortion shall not be a service provided with public funds to a recipient of welfare benefits, whether through a program of medical assistance, general assistance, or categorical assistance or through any other type of public aid or assistance program, unless the abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother.  It is the policy of this state to prohibit the appropriation of public funds for the purpose of providing an abortion to a person who receives welfare benefits unless the abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother.&quot;
12347246	[Italian emigration: historiography, anthropology, and comparative research]	&quot;This brief paper identifies the most important moments and the most significant studies of Italian historiography on emigration. These range from the first formulation of economic and national models of the Italian exodus to their subsequent fragmentation into a mosaic of regional and local historical and anthropological studies. Ultimately, this will allow a much needed conceptual synthesis, aiming at new comparative research objectives, and a less specialized and sectorial analysis of emigration. Such an approach would also help us to tackle the migrational phenomena in contemporary society with a greater historical awareness and with more adequate cultural comprehension.&quot;  (SUMMARY IN ENG AND ITA AND SPA)
12353690	Pressure broadening study at low temperature: application to methane.	We studied the R(0) line profile in the CH4 v4 band from room temperature to 188 K with N2 as a perturber, to 100 K with O2 as perturber, and from room temperature to 15 K using He as a perturber. The N2 and O2 measurements were performed over a total pressure range of 15-110 mbar, and for the He measurements the maximum sample pressure at 15 K was 1.10 mbar. Broadening parameters were determined, taking into account the confinement narrowing (Dicke effect), and narrowing parameters, deduced from the soft or hard collision model, are compared with the dynamic friction coefficient calculated values. We also obtained preliminary values for the temperature dependence of the N2, O2 and He line broadening parameters for this transition.
12354180	Assessment of suitable porcine semen for freezing, according to the ejaculate characteristics in the Iberico x Landrace breed.	A total of 35 ejaculates were studied in order to assess the suitability of porcine semen for freezing according to the ejaculate characteristics. The effects of the freezing procedure were identified; a decrease in motility and acrosome quality was found after thawing. The best results on motility were linked to the ejaculates with a volume of less than 100 ml of the sperm-rich fraction, a concentration lower than 450 x 10(6) spermatozoa/ml and an agglutination score below 2. However, the best normal apical ridge (NAR) was found when the volume of the sperm-rich fraction was greater than 150 ml. For this reason, an intermediate volume of the sperm-rich fraction of the ejaculate for the best motility and the best NAR, a concentration lower than 450 x 106 spermatozoa/ml and a rate of agglutination below 2 should provide the best quality after freezing. This study also attempted to determine whether a positive effect of ejaculate selection on the overall freezing performance might be expected.
12355367	Killing of Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium tuberculosis by a mycobacteriophage delivered by a nonvirulent mycobacterium: a model for phage therapy of intracellular bacterial pathogens.	Mycobacterium avium causes disseminated infection in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a pathogen associated with the deaths of millions of people worldwide annually. Effective therapeutic regimens exist that are limited by the emergence of drug resistance and the inability of antibiotics to kill dormant organisms. The present study describes a system using Mycobacterium smegmatis, an avirulent mycobacterium, to deliver the lytic phage TM4 where both M. avium and M. tuberculosis reside within macrophages. These results showed that treatment of M. avium-infected, as well as M. tuberculosis-infected, RAW 264.7 macrophages, with M. smegmatis transiently infected with TM4, resulted in a significant time- and titer-dependent reduction in the number of viable intracellular bacilli. In addition, the M. smegmatis vacuole harboring TM4 fuses with the M. avium vacuole in macrophages. These results suggest a potentially novel concept to kill intracellular pathogenic bacteria and warrant future development.
12357571	Attitudes to privacy, health records and interconnection: implications for healthcare organizations.	About nine in 10 Canadians support legislation that would protect patient confidentiality. However, the Canadian public is not consistent in its views regarding privacy. Data suggest that the public's attitudes to privacy, and particularly access to medical records, are heavily influenced by the context in which the situation is presented and potential benefits to the individual or to the public.
12363171	A case-control study of asthma among U.S. Army Gulf War veterans and modeled exposure to oil well fire smoke.	OBJECTIVE: Thousands of American troops were exposed to oil well fire smoke during the Persian Gulf War, but the actual impact of this on their health is unknown. To assess the potential association between physician-diagnosed asthma and objective estimates of oil fire smoke, we conducted a case-control study of Army Gulf War veterans. METHODS: Subjects were participants in the Comprehensive Clinical Evaluation Program. Cases had physician-diagnosed asthma; controls were selected from the population of noncases. The two estimates of exposure were cumulative exposure and number of days at high levels. RESULTS: A total of 873 cases and 2,464 controls were included. Significant associations were observed between asthma and both estimates of exposure, with an adjusted odds ratio of 1.4 (95% confidence interval = 1.11.8) for both the highest levels of cumulative exposure and days exposed to high levels. A dose response was observed for both exposure measures. CONCLUSIONS: We found significant associations between asthma and oil fire smoke exposure. Because much of the medical history was not available, an etiological association cannot be determined from this study, and additional research is needed.
12363433	Applying the biopharmaceutics classification system to veterinary pharmaceutical products. Part II. Physiological considerations.	In comparing product bioavailability across animal species, it is not unusual to observe marked interspecies differences. For many compounds, these differences reflect presystemic drug metabolism. However, a host of other variables must also be considered such as in vivo drug solubility, gastric transit time, intestinal permeability, diet, and species-by-formulation interactions. By combining information on drug solubility and intestinal permeability with an understanding of the interrelationship between pH, product dissolution and gastrointestinal physiology, we attempt to define those conditions under which in vitro dissolution data may be used as a surrogate for data on in vivo bioavailability. We consider the likely physiological causes for species-related differences in the absolute and relative bioavailability of orally administered pharmaceuticals, and examine the potential for these normal interspecies differences to reflect bioavailability changes that can occur with various human pathologies.
12365430	Moral norms and hermeneutics in clinical bioethics.	Clinical bioethics applies moral norms to clinical situations, but this kind of application is not of an impersonal, deductive kind. In the stories of illness the suffering voices of the patients have to be heard and interpreted, to discover the real meaning of their resort to medicine. In a hermeneutical perspective, moral norms have a symbolic nature, because they command a good personal attitude toward the other persons and they prohibit an hostile intention of exploitation, domination, abuse.
12365691	The relationship among axial length, corneal curvature, and ocular fundus changes at the posterior pole and in the peripheral retina.	BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to investigate whether fundus findings in moderately to highly myopic eyes are more likely to occur in the posterior pole or peripheral retina and to describe the type and frequency of ocular fundus variations. METHODS: Patients qualified for inclusion if the refractive error was 6.00 D or greater of myopia or the axial length was 26 mm or greater Data collection included refractive correction, corneal curvature, axial length, and stereoscopic ocular fundus evaluation. RESULTS: Twenty eyes of 10 male patients and 36 eyes of 20 female patients met eligibility criteria. Mean age of all subjects was 36 +/- 15 years (range, 17 to 83 years). All eyes had best-corrected visual acuity of at least 20/25. Spherical equivalent refractive correction (SERC) was -8.07 +/- 2.11 diopters (range, -6.37 to -16.00) and -7.92 +/- 2.27 diopters (-5.50 to -16.00) for right and left eyes, respectively. Mean axial length was 26.39 +/- 1.14 mm (range, 24.27 to 30.02) and 26.36 +/- 1.26 mm (range, 24.41 to 30.67) for right and left eyes, respectively. Of 56 eyes examined, 25 (44.7%) exhibited only findings at the posterior pole alone; 13 eyes (23.2%) had no findings by our criteria; 12 eyes (21.4%) had findings in the periphery alone; and 6 eyes (10.7%) had posterior-pole and periphery findings. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that fundus findings in moderately to highly myopic eyes were more prevalent in the posterior pole alone versus the retinal periphery alone, or than those occurring in both the posterior pole and retinal periphery. This study also confirms that the most-prevalent posterior pole lesion is optic nerve head (ONH) crescent and the most-frequent peripheral retinal change is lattice degeneration. This information may be useful when evaluating and following patients with moderate-to-high degrees of myopia-especially after surgical refractive modification.
12368605	Dysrhythmia of caloric nystagmus.	OBJECTIVES: Objectives of the study were 1) to determine the prevalence and characteristics of dysrhythmia, 2) to identify associations between dysrhythmia and other patient variables, and 3) to determine whether dysrhythmia is more a characteristic of individuals than simply a correlate of alertness or response intensity. STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional. METHODS: Review of records from 150 patients undergoing the caloric test. RESULTS: Dysrhythmia severe enough to interfere with accurate analysis of the caloric test was present in 40% of the cases. Individuals were entered into an &quot;orderly&quot; group (n = 67) or a &quot;dysrhythmic&quot; group (n = 83) and were 5.8 times more likely to remain in the same group on a second visit than to change groups. Stronger response scores were associated with less dysrhythmia. Higher caloric-induced vertigo scores were associated with both stronger response scores and lower dysrhythmia scores. Cases in the dysrhythmic group were 3.8 times more likely to have abnormal caloric test results than individuals in the orderly group. CONCLUSIONS: Dysrhythmia frequently interferes with valid and accurate interpretation of the caloric test. Current methods of &quot;mental alerting&quot; frequently fail to eliminate dysrhythmia. The presence of dysrhythmia appears to be a strong predictor of an abnormal caloric test result, and there is a moderate correlation between dysrhythmia and response intensity. Nevertheless, our results suggest that dysrhythmia is specific to individuals, rather than simply a manifestation of peripheral vestibular disease or a correlate of alertness or response intensity.
12370218	Angiographic findings of the multicenter Randomized Study With the Sirolimus-Eluting Bx Velocity Balloon-Expandable Stent (RAVEL): sirolimus-eluting stents inhibit restenosis irrespective of the vessel size.	BACKGROUND: Restenosis remains the major limitation of coronary catheter-based intervention. In small vessels, the amount of neointimal tissue is disproportionately greater than the vessel caliber, resulting in higher restenosis rates. In the Randomized Study With the Sirolimus-Eluting Bx Velocity Balloon-Expandable Stent (RAVEL) trial, approximately 40% of the vessels were small (&lt;2.5 mm). The present study evaluates the relationship between angiographic outcome and vessel diameter for sirolimus-eluting stents. METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients were randomized to receive either an 18-mm bare metal Bx VELOCITY (BS group, n=118), or a sirolimus-eluting Bx VELOCITY stent (SES group, n=120). Subgroups were stratified into tertiles according to their reference diameter (RD; stratum I, RD &lt;2.36 mm; stratum II, RD 2.36 mm to 2.84 mm; stratum III, RD >2.84 mm). At 6-month follow-up, the restenosis rate in the SES group was 0% in all strata (versus 35%, 26%, and 20%, respectively, in the BS group). In-stent late loss was 0.01+/-0.25 versus 0.80+/-0.43 mm in stratum I, 0.01+/-0.38 versus 0.88+/-0.57 mm in stratum II, and -0.06+/-0.35 versus 0.74+/-0.57 mm in stratum III (SES versus BS). In SES, the minimal lumen diameter (MLD) remained unchanged (Delta -0.72 to 0.72 mm) in 97% of the lesions and increased (=late gain, DeltaMLD &lt;-0.72 mm) in 3% of the lesions. Multivariate predictors for late loss were treatment allocation (P&lt;0.001) and postprocedural MLD (P= 0.008). CONCLUSIONS: Sirolimus-eluting stents prevent neointimal proliferation and late lumen loss irrespective of the vessel diameter. The classic inverse relationship between vessel diameter and restenosis rate was seen in the bare stent group but not in the sirolimus-eluting stent group.
12372955	Nephrotic syndrome with portal, splenic and renal vein thrombosis. A case report.	BACKGROUND: Thromboembolism is known as a major complication of nephrotic syndrome, but only 4 cases of portal vein thrombosis have been reported as a complication of nephrotic syndrome. All of these 4 cases had acute symptoms, and 3 of 4 were in relapsing phase of nephrotic syndrome when thrombi were found. We describe here a case of 51-year-old woman with fresh nephrotic syndrome that was asymptomatically complicated by portal, splenic and renal vein thrombosis. CONCLUSIONS: In the presence of fresh nephrotic syndrome of minimal change, asymptomatic and widely distributed, including portal vein, thrombus formation occurred. If the clinical course shows resistance to therapy, we must consider the complication of venous thrombosis. Anticoagulant therapy with heparin and warfarin was effective and all thrombi disappeared without any other complications.
12376394	Vestibulosympathetic reflex during orthostatic challenge in aging humans.	Aging attenuates the increase in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) and elicits hypotension during otolith organ engagement in humans. The purpose of the present study was to determine the neural and cardiovascular responses to otolithic engagement during orthostatic stress in older adults. We hypothesized that age-related impairments in the vestibulosympathetic reflex would persist during orthostatic challenge in older subjects and might compromise arterial blood pressure regulation. MSNA, arterial blood pressure, and heart rate responses to head-down rotation (HDR) performed with and without lower body negative pressure (LBNP) in prone subjects were measured. Ten young (27 +/- 1 yr) and 11 older subjects (64 +/- 1 yr) were studied prospectively. HDR performed alone elicited an attenuated increase in MSNA in older subjects (Delta106 +/- 28 vs. Delta20 +/- 7% for young and older subjects). HDR performed during simultaneous orthostatic stress increased total MSNA further in young (Delta53 +/- 15%; P &lt; 0.05) but not older subjects (Delta-5 +/- 4%). Older subjects demonstrated consistent significant hypotension during HDR performed both alone (Delta-6 +/- 2 mmHg) and during LBNP (Delta-7 +/- 2 mmHg). These data provide experimental support for the concept that age-related impairments in the vestibulosympathetic reflex persist during orthostatic challenge in older adults. Furthermore, these findings are consistent with the concept that age-related alterations in vestibular function might contribute to altered orthostatic blood pressure regulation with age in humans.
12377132	Simulation of the effects of global normalization procedures in functional MRI.	We report on differences in sensitivity and false-positive rate across five methods of global normalization using resting-state fMRI data embedded with simulated activation. These methods were grand mean session scaling, proportional scaling, ANCOVA, a masking method, and an orthogonalization method. We found that global normalization by proportional scaling and ANCOVA decreased the sensitivity of the statistical analysis and induced artifactual deactivation even when the correlation between the global signal and the experimental paradigm was relatively low. The masking method and the orthogonalization method performed better from this perspective but are both restricted to certain experimental conditions. Based on the results of these simulations, we offer practical guidelines for the choice of global normalization method least likely to bias the experimental results.
12378019	Epididymal anomalies associated with patent processus vaginalis in hydrocele and cryptorchidism.	The epididymal anomalies and patent processus vaginalis are frequently seen in patients with cryptorchidism or hydrocele. We performed a prospective study on the relationship between the epididymal anomalies and the patency of the processus vaginalis in boys with hydrocele (190 cases) or cryptorchidism (89 cases) who were treated from August 1997 to February 2000 (mean age, 51 months; range, 12 to 152 months). The epididymal anomalies were observed with an overall frequency of 48%. Closed, partially closed, and open processus vaginalis were associated with an epididymal anomaly in 14, 38, and 65% of cases, respectively. The epididymal anomalies were more common in association with undescended (61%) than with descended (43%) testes without statistical significance (p=0.415). Incomplete attachment of the caput epididymis was the most common anomaly (35%), followed by detachment of caput and cauda epididymis (31%), cauda epididymis (24%), and long looping epididymis (10%). These data showed that the epididymal anomalies were strongly associated with the patency of the processus vaginalis irrespective of testicular descent (p&lt;0.001), and they provide further evidence for the hypothesis that a common stimulus, possibly androgens, may be required for the epididymal development and obliteration of the processus vaginalis.
12380179	[Diagnosis and surgical treatment of primary hyperaldosteronism]	Primary hyperaldosteroneism (PHA) is one of the main causes of secondary arterial hypertension (AH). Medical histories of 62 patients with PHA were analyzed. aldosterone-produced adenoma (APA) was diagnosed in 37 (59.7%) patients (all of them were operated), idiopathic hyperaldosteroneism (IHA)--in 25 (40.3%) patients, 11 of them were operated. Complex clinical and instrumental examination (hormonal analysis, USI, CT, MRT, in difficult cases in 35 patients--selective phlebography with blood sampling) was carried out in all the patients. Clinical picture in the majority patients with PHA was unclear. Hypokaliemia is not obligatory symptom of PHA. AH is often the only symptom of PHA, therefore all the patients with AH require complex laboratory examination including repeated detection of potassium blood level, examination of serum aldosterone concentration and renin activity, diurnal urinary excretion of aldosterone. In difficult differential diagnosis between APA and IHA it is necessary to perform selective phlebography with blood sampling from inferior cava and adrenal veins with obligatory detection of aldosterone and hydrocortisone concentration. Diagnostic and curative algorithm are developed. Surgical treatment is indicated for patients with APA, and also for ones with IHA who had functionally dominant adrenal gland (based on selective blood sampling analysis) and resistant for drug therapy AH.
12385840	Decidual natural killer cells: key regulators of placental development (a review).	Establishment of pregnancy initiates a dynamic and predictable series of changes in the uterus. In rodents, the trophectoderm of the blastocyst develops through the stage of an ectoplacental cone to become the placenta. The inner cell mass becomes the fetus and its associated extra-embryonic ectoderm and mesoderm. Maternal changes support development of the conceptus. These begin in the uterine stroma, which undergoes a process known as decidualization, and progress to include dilation and elongation of the uteroplacental arteries and activation and proliferation of specialized large granulated lymphocytes in the decidua basalis. This review focuses on these pregnancy-associated lymphocytes, known as uterine Natural Killer (uNK) cells and on their interactions with the other tissues that form the mesometrial aspect of the mouse maternal-fetal interface. Analogous lymphocytes are present in the decidualized human uterus. Understanding of uNK cell biology has advanced significantly through histological studies of implantation sites in immune deficient mice. Here, we summarize the key studies in lymphocyte-, cytokine- and cytokine receptor-deficient mice and in four enhanced models of gestation in these mice that incorporate transplantation or therapy with biologically active molecules.
12386325	New insights into neuron-glia communication.	Two-way communication between neurons and nonneural cells called glia is essential for axonal conduction, synaptic transmission, and information processing and thus is required for normal functioning of the nervous system during development and throughout adult life. The signals between neurons and glia include ion fluxes, neurotransmitters, cell adhesion molecules, and specialized signaling molecules released from synaptic and nonsynaptic regions of the neuron. In contrast to the serial flow of information along chains of neurons, glia communicate with other glial cells through intracellular waves of calcium and via intercellular diffusion of chemical messengers. By releasing neurotransmitters and other extracellular signaling molecules, glia can affect neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission and perhaps coordinate activity across networks of neurons.
12391580	On-line microdialysis for enhanced resolution and sensitivity during electrospray mass spectrometry of non-covalent complexes and competitive binding studies.	Many proteins and macromolecules easily form metal adduct ions which impairs their analysis by mass spectrometry. The present study describes how the formation of undesired adducts can be minimized by on-line microdialysis for non-covalent binding studies of macromolecules with low molecular mass ligands with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). The technique was indispensable for protein-ligand studies due to reduction of unwanted adduct ions, and thus gave excellent resolution and a sensitivity improvement of at least 5 times. The core of the analytical system was a modified microdialysis device, which was operated in countercurrent mode. A novel technique based on microdialysis for competitive binding studies is also presented. The non-covalent complex between a protein and a ligand was formed in the sample vial prior to analysis. The complex was injected into an on-line microdialysis system where a competitive ligand was administered in the dialysis buffer outside of the fiber. The second ligand competitively displaced the first ligand through transport via the wall of the dialysis fiber, and the intact complexes were detected by ESI-MS.
12396520	Population growth rate as a basis for ecological risk assessment of toxic chemicals.	Assessing the ecological risks of toxic chemicals is most often based on individual-level responses such as survival, reproduction or growth. Such an approach raises the following questions with regard to translating these measured effects into likely impacts on natural populations. (i) To what extent do individual-level variables underestimate or overestimate population-level responses? (ii) How do toxicant-caused changes in individual-level variables translate into changes in population dynamics for species with different life cycles? (iii) To what extent are these relationships complicated by population-density effects? These issues go to the heart of the ecological relevance of ecotoxicology and we have addressed them using the population growth rate as an integrating concept. Our analysis indicates that although the most sensitive individual-level variables are likely to be equally or more sensitive to increasing concentrations of toxic chemicals than population growth rate, they are difficult to identify a priori and, even if they could be identified, integrating impacts on key life-cycle variables via population growth rate analysis is nevertheless a more robust approach for assessing the ecological risks of chemicals. Populations living under density-dependent control may respond differently to toxic chemicals than exponentially growing populations, and greater care needs to be given to incorporating realistic density conditions (either experimentally or by simulation) into ecotoxicological test designs. It is impractical to expect full life-table studies, which record changes in survival, fecundity and development at defined intervals through the life cycle of organisms under specified conditions, for all relevant species, so we argue that population growth rate analysis should be used to provide guidance for a more pragmatic and ecologically sound approach to ecological risk assessment.
12407424	Persistent hepatic expression of human apo A-I after transfer with a helper-virus independent adenoviral vector.	Gene transfer with 'gutted' vectors is associated with persistent transgene expression and absence of hepatotoxicity, but the requirement of helper viruses hampers efficient production and leads to contamination of viral batches with these helper-viruses. In the present study, gene transfer with a helper-virus independent E(1)/E(3)/E(4)-deleted adenoviral vector induced persistent expression of human apo A-I (200 +/- 16 mg/dl at day 35, 190 +/- 15 mg/dl at 4 months, 170 +/- 16 mg/dl at 6 months) and stable transgene DNA levels (3.5 +/- 0.60 at day 35, 3.3 +/- 0.39 at 4 months, 3.1 +/- 0.47 mg/dl at 6 months) in C57BL/6 mice in the absence of significant toxicity. The vector contained the 1.5 kb human alpha(1)-antitrypsin promoter in front of the genomic human apo A-I sequence and four copies of the human apo E enhancer (hAAT.gA-I.4xapoE) and was deleted in E(1), E(3) and E(4). Reintroduction of E(4) ORF 3 and E(4) ORF 4 in the viral backbone caused a more than four-fold decline of transgene DNA between day 35 and 4 months after transfer both in wild-type and in C57BL/6 SCID and C57BL/6 Rag-1(-/-) mice, indicating that the effect of E(4) ORF 3 and E(4) ORF 4 is independent of a cellular immune response against viral epitopes. Co-injection of an E(1)-deleted vector containing no expression cassette and the E(1)/E(3)/E(4)-deleted vector containing the hAAT.gA-I.4xapoE expression cassette indicated that E(4) gene products destabilize transgene DNA in trans. Gene transfer with an E(1)/E(3)/E(4)-deleted vector containing only E(4) ORF 3 and the hAAT.gA-I.4xapoE expression cassette was associated with transgene DNA decline, but not with hepatotoxicity, indicating that transgene DNA persistence and hepatotoxicity are dissociated processes. After transfer with E(1)/E(3)/E(4)-deleted vectors containing expression cassettes with a different promoter or a different position of the apo E enhancers, transgene DNA levels were less stable than after transfer with the vector containing hAAT.gA-I.4xapoE, indicating that the expression cassette is an important determinant of episomal stability. In conclusion, gene transfer with an E(1)/E(3)/E(4)-deleted vector containing the hAAT.gA-I.4xapoE expression cassette induces persistent expression of human apo A-I in the absence of hepatotoxicity. Transgene DNA turnover is independent of an adaptive cellular immune response against viral epitopes and of hepatotoxicity. E(1)/E(3)/E(4)-deleted vectors containing transgenes under control of the hAAT promoter in combination with four copies of the human apo E enhancer may be suitable for hepatocyte-specific overexpression of transgenes after gene transfer. doi:10.1038/sj.gt.3301824
12408822	Evidence that siRNAs function as guides, not primers, in the Drosophila and human RNAi pathways.	In Drosophila, two features of small interfering RNA (siRNA) structure--5' phosphates and 3' hydroxyls--are reported to be essential for RNA interference (RNAi). Here, we show that as in Drosophila, a 5' phosphate is required for siRNA function in human HeLa cells. In contrast, we find no evidence in flies or humans for a role in RNAi for the siRNA 3' hydroxyl group. Our in vitro data suggest that in both flies and mammals, each siRNA guides endonucleolytic cleavage of the target RNA at a single site. We conclude that the underlying mechanism of RNAi is conserved between flies and mammals and that RNA-dependent RNA polymerases are not required for RNAi in these organisms.
12408923	Determination of capsaicinoids in topical cream by liquid-liquid extraction and liquid chromatography.	A reversed-phase liquid chromatography (LC) method has been developed, optimised and validated for the separation and quantitation of capsaicin (CP) and dihydrocapsaicin (DHCP) in a topical cream formulation. Sample preparation involves liquid-liquid extraction prior to LC analysis. The method uses a Hypersil C(18) BDS, 5 micrometer, 250x4.6 mm I.D. column maintained at 35 degrees C. The mobile phase comprises methanol, water, acetonitrile (ACN) and acetic acid (47:42:10:1, v/v/v/v) at a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min. Robustness was evaluated by performing a central composite face-centred design (CCF) experiment. The method shows good selectivity, linearity, sensitivity and repeatability. The conditions allow the separation and quantitation of CP and DHCP without interference from the other substances contained in the cream.
12410550	Studies on the antiinflammatory activity of Betula alnoides bark.	The antiinflammatory activity of Betula alnoides extract was evaluated in acute and subacute inflammation models. The extract was also evaluated for antiinflammatory activity in sheep RBC induced sensitivity and in membrane stabilization models. Except for the sheep RBC induced sensitivity model, the extract showed significant antiinflammatory activity.
12411619	Pathologists' views on consent for autopsy.	Consent to autopsy is usually obtained by a doctor other than the one who will perform the procedure. There is an argument that, for proper informed consent, a pathologist should participate. We ascertained the views of consultant pathologists in south-east England. 53 (87%) of 61 consultants responded, of whom 50 currently do autopsies. Only 2 at present participate directly in obtaining consent, and 10 of the remaining 48 expressed willingness to do so. The general view was that consent is best obtained by a senior clinician from the team that has looked after the patient. Pathologists see their primary role as to provide guidance to clinicians. Few see it as their function to obtain consent for autopsy.
12413123	Experimental study of the phenomenon of 1 x N spectral switch due to diffraction of partially coherent light.	Spectral properties of a class of partially coherent light with spectral profiles of varying bandwidths are studied on diffraction by a circular aperture in the far zone for different diffractive angles, i.e., for on-axis and off-axis points on the observation plane. It is found that the spectrum of the light in the far zone is different from that at the aperture plane. This change in the spectrum is termed spectral shift, which is found to be different at different diffractive angles. The spectral shift for a fixed diffactive angle shows a gradual change. However, for a critical value of the coherence at the aperture plane, the spectral shift shows a rapid transition, termed spectral switch. For different diffractive angles the coherence that causes the spectral switch also differs. Therefore the phenomenon of 1 x N spectral switch (consisting of one input port and N output ports) is studied experimentally.
12417981	Critical parameters in the cytotoxicity of photodynamic therapy using a pulsed laser.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) using a pulsed laser is becoming popular, but its cytotoxic effect is still not clear. We therefore studied the cytotoxicity of PDT using a pulsed laser by changing its irradiation parameters and compared the degrees of cytotoxicity with those of PDT using continuous-wave (CW) light sources. Mice renal cell carcinoma cells were incubated with PAD-S31, a water-soluble photosensitiser of which the excitation peak is 670 nm, and were then irradiated with either a tungsten lamp, a CW diode laser, or a nanosecond pulsed Nd:YAG laser-based optical parametric oscillator system. When the PAD-S31 concentration and total light dose were constant (12 micro g/ml and 40 J/cm(2), respectively), the CW laser caused fluence rate-dependent decrease in cellular proliferation until the fluence rate reached 90 mW/cm(2), at which point inhibition of cellular proliferation was more than 80%. The cytotoxicity then became almost saturated at fluence rates of>90 mW/cm(2). On the other hand, inhibition of cellular proliferation in samples irradiated with the pulsed laser reached 80% even at the fluence rate of 15 mW/cm(2), and, interestingly, the cytotoxicity paradoxically decreased with increase in the fluence rate. Moreover, the cytotoxicity in the PDT using the pulsed laser depended on the repetition rate. The inhibition of cellular proliferation by PDT using 30-Hz irradiation was greater than that by PDT using 5-Hz irradiation when the same fluence rates were used. These results suggest that the efficacy of PDT using a pulsed laser depends considerably on fluence rate and repetition rate.
12421550	A model of HIV/AIDS with staged progression and amelioration.	An epidemic model with multiple stages of infection is studied. The model allows for infected individuals to move from advanced stages of infection back to less advanced stages of infection. A threshold parameter which determines the local stability of the disease free equilibrium is found and interpreted. Under conditions on the parameters, global stability is demonstrated using techniques involving compound matrices.
12422795	How to identify your enemies before they destroy you.	We've all heard the stories about corporate giants who ignored disruptive innovations and paid a steep price: Think what the personal computer did to Digital or Japanese economy cars did to the Big Three automakers. Big companies now spend a lot of time and money trying to make sure they don't get blindsided by their smaller, leaner counterparts. But it's not easy to distinguish genuine threats from also-rans as they emerge. Most of the nascent technologies that typically bombard executives will not amount to competitive threats and deserve to be ignored. As a result, disruptions are usually not taken seriously until they become obvious--when it's often too late. A disruptive innovation is a technology, product, or process that creeps up from below an existing business and threatens to displace it. Usually, the disrupter offers lower performance and less functionality at a much lower price. The product or process is good enough to meet some customers' needs; others welcome the disruption's simplicity. Gradually, it improves to the point where it displaces the incumbent. But, the authors argue, disruption isn't inevitable. They have developed a tool that can help companies detect potential disruptive innovations while management still has time to respond effectively. The tool's decision-making methodology harnesses the organization's collective wisdom to determine how likely it is that a particular innovation will seriously damage an incumbent's business. The methodology has two components: an analytical instrument and an organizational process. There's nothing magical about it--but it gets managers to think systematically about identifying and addressing threats to the core business. And the tool's rigorous approach can spell the difference between flailing around and acting effectively in the face of a serious competitive threat.
12425442	Multi-objective cooperative coevolution of artificial neural networks (multi-objective cooperative networks).	In this paper we present a cooperative coevolutive model for the evolution of neural network topology and weights, called MOBNET. MOBNET evolves subcomponents that must be combined in order to form a network, instead of whole networks. The problem of assigning credit to the subcomponents is approached as a multi-objective optimization task. The subcomponents in a cooperative coevolutive model must fulfill different criteria to be useful, these criteria usually conflict with each other. The problem of evaluating the fitness on an individual based on many criteria that must be optimized together can be approached as a multi-criteria optimization problems, so the methods from multi-objective optimization offer the most natural way to solve the problem. In this work we show how using several objectives for every subcomponent and evaluating its fitness as a multi-objective optimization problem, the performance of the model is highly competitive. MOBNET is compared with several standard methods of classification and with other neural network models in solving four real-world problems, and it shows the best overall performance of all classification methods applied. It also produces smaller networks when compared to other models. The basic idea underlying MOBNET is extensible to a more general model of coevolutionary computation, as none of its features are exclusive of neural networks design. There are many applications of cooperative coevolution that could benefit from the multi-objective optimization approach proposed in this paper.
12426801	Implications of self-administered St. John's wort for depression symptom management.	PURPOSE: To provide nurse practitioners (NPs) with a greater understanding of the complex issues surrounding St. John's wort as a self-treatment for depression; to review laws regulating the production and sale of herbal products in the United States (U.S.); and to review clinical and practice implications for the self-administration of St. John's wort and herbal treatments. DATA SOURCES: Federal regulations pertaining to herbal products, current research literature, and anecdotal and consumer reports. CONCLUSIONS: Current research findings suggest that St. John's wort may be an effective treatment for mild depression; however, evidence of significant adverse drug interactions with St. John's wort should not be overlooked. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Clinical assessment of the mildly depressed patient wishing to self-administer St. John's wort requires basic knowledge of this herbal supplement including regulation and risk information. An open NP-patient relationship helps to ensure patient disclosure of self-administered St. John's wort.
12431753	Effects of hydroxyflutamide in the medial preoptic area or lateral septum on reproductive behaviors in male rats.	We examined whether androgen receptors in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) and lateral septum (LS) are required for the expression of copulation and sexual motivation. Castrated males received testosterone-filled silastic capsules to restore behavior, and were implanted with the antiandrogen hydroxyflutamide (OHF) or blank cannulae. One group was implanted in either the anteroventral MPOA or LS (ANT group). Another group was implanted in the posterodorsal MPOA or LS (POST group). Copulation was tested on days 2, 6, 10, and 14 of OHF exposure; partner preference, a measure of sexual motivation, was tested on day 15. The results showed that sexual behavior was significantly suppressed by OHF in the MPOA of the ANT group, but not the POST group. However, sexual motivation was significantly reduced by OHF in the MPOA of the POST group, but not the ANT group. In the LS, OHF had no effect on sexual behavior and partner preference regardless of implant site. The data suggest site specificity within the MPOA for androgen receptor activation of male reproductive behaviors.
12440803	Validity and reliability of a modified version of the neck disability index.	The Neck Disability Index was tested for validity and reliability. Fifty-nine Swedish patients (28 men, 31 women) were included. Twenty patients were in the acute phase after a neck sprain, 19 had chronic neck pain and 20 had no neck pain but had other musculoskeletal symptoms. On 5 occasions, the patients completed the Neck Disability Index, the Disability Rating Index, the MOS 36-item short-form health survey, 2 visual analogue scales, for pain and overall activity and some complementary questions. Levels of sensitivity, test-retest reliability and validity were acceptable. In order to increase specificity, we modified the Neck Disability Index by clarifying that the items only referred to the pain in the neck in 9 of 10 items. Thirty-eight patients (16 men, 22 women) were included in a study of the modified version. Twenty patients with acute neck sprain and 18 with other musculoskeletal symptoms filled out the modified version of the Neck Disability Index, which provided a more specific measure of disability due to neck pain.
12443302	Rayleigh-Bnard convection with a radial ramp in plate separation.	Pattern formation in Rayleigh-Bnard convection in a large-aspect-ratio cylinder with a radial ramp in the plate separation is studied analytically and numerically by performing numerical simulations of the Boussinesq equations. A horizontal mean flow and a vertical large scale counterflow are quantified and used to understand the pattern wave number. Our results suggest that the mean flow, generated by amplitude gradients, plays an important role in the roll compression observed as the control parameter is increased. Near threshold, the mean flow has a quadrupole dependence with a single vortex in each quadrant while away from threshold the mean flow exhibits an octupole dependence with a counterrotating pair of vortices in each quadrant. This is confirmed analytically using the amplitude equation and Cross-Newell mean flow equation. By performing numerical experiments, the large scale counterflow is also found to aid in the roll compression away from threshold but to a much lesser degree. Our results yield an understanding of the pattern wave numbers observed in experiment away from threshold and suggest that near threshold the mean flow and large scale counterflow are not responsible for the observed shift to smaller than critical wave numbers.
12445348	Tuberculum sellae meningiomas: microsurgical anatomy and surgical technique.	OBJECTIVE: Despite Cushing's accurate description of the anatomic origin of tuberculum sellae meningiomas, many subsequent authors have included tumors originating from the neighboring sella region in this classification. This has led to difficulty in evaluating the surgical results and consensus for an optimal surgical technique. We think this confusion has arisen from Cushing's description of these tumors under the heading &quot;suprasellar meningiomas,&quot; which referred to their distinctive clinical symptoms and not their anatomic origin. We describe the microsurgical anatomy and tumor growth patterns to reemphasize the original classification of Cushing's tuberculum sellae meningiomas. Additionally, we describe our surgical approach, which decreases the risk of injury to anterior visual pathways and anterior cerebral circulation arteries. METHODS: During a 19-year period, 23 patients with meningiomas arising from the tuberculum and diaphragma sellae underwent craniotomies at New York University Medical Center. The tumor size ranged from 2 to 5 cm. All patients presented with symptoms of visual dysfunction; 15 were asymmetrical. Magnetic resonance imaging with and without gadolinium differentiated these tumors from other suprasellar tumors with a high degree of accuracy. All patients underwent a pterional transsylvian approach. RESULTS: Twenty patients had total tumor removal, and three had subtotal tumor removal. There was one regrowth in the subtotal tumor removal group. Patients were observed for a mean follow-up time of 9.3 years (range, 3.6-18.5 yr). Visual acuity improved in 55%, was unchanged in 26%, and worsened in 19% of patients. Two of the oldest patients died from pulmonary complications, resulting in a mortality rate of 8.7%. CONCLUSION: We think that tuberculum and diaphragma sellae meningiomas are anatomically indistinguishable and should be termed tuberculum sellae meningioma. A pterional craniotomy with microsurgical dissection of the sylvian fissure allows access to these tumors with minimal neurological and ophthalmological morbidity.
12450337	Mechanisms of source confusion and discounting in short-term priming 2: effects of prime similarity and target duration.	D. E. Huber, R. M. Shiffrin, K. B. Lyle, and K. I. Ruys (2001) tested two-alternative, forced-choice (2-AFC) perceptual identification in a short-term priming task. For repetition priming, passive viewing of primes resulted in a preference to choose repeated words, but actively responding to primes resulted in a preference against choosing repeated words. These results were explained with a computational model, responding optimally with unknown sources of evidence (ROUSE), using the offsetting mechanisms of source confusion and discounting. An analysis of ROUSE revealed conditions under which discounting efficacy should diminish, causing a preference for primed words even with active prime processing. Two new studies confirm 2 such conditions: very short target flash durations and very low similarity between primes and primed choice words. These a priori predictions contrast with the a posteriori data fits of a multinomial model developed by R. Ratcliff and G. McKoon (2001).
12454598	Pericytic-like angiotropism of glioma and melanoma cells.	We have identified in malignant melanoma an angiotumoral complex in which tumor cells occupy a pericytic location along the endothelium of microvessels without evidence of intravasation. We have suggested that this pericytic-like angiotropism could be a marker of an extravascular migration of tumor cells along the abluminal surface of vessels. The extravascular migratory metastasis proposed for melanoma has close analogies with glioma migration. To compare our hypothesis of extravascular migration by melanoma with the migration of glioma cells, we have used the B16 murine melanoma cell line and the GL26 murine glioma cell line in an in vivo murine brain tumor model and in vitro using endothelial cells that have formed capillary-like structures and have been cocultivated with tumor cells. In the brain tumors, a clear progression of glioma and melanoma cells was observed along the abluminal surface of vessels, where they occupied a pericytic location along the periendothelial laminin. In vitro, time-lapse videomicroscopy recorded the migration of tumor cells toward endothelial tubules. After 24 hours, both the melanoma cells and the glioma cells were localized along the external surfaces of the vascular tubules, occupying a pericytic-like location. These similarities between glioma and melanoma support the hypothesis of an extravascular migration of melanoma cells, particularly along the abluminal surface of vessels.
12455344	Creating effective leadership for improving patient safety.	Leadership has emerged as a key theme in the rapidly growing movement to improve patient safety. Leading an organization that is committed to providing safer care requires overcoming the common traps in thinking about error, such as blaming individuals, ignoring the underlying systems factors, and blaming the bureaucracy of the organization. Leaders must address the system issues that are at work within their organizations to allow individual and organizational learning to occur.
12456152	Pain evaluation and response to buprenorphine in rats subjected to sham middle cerebral artery occlusion.	Appropriate and efficacious use of analgesics in rodents must be balanced judiciously between animal needs and research objectives. A concern in many studies is that analgesia will confound experimental outcome or interpretation. Accordingly, determining whether rats subjected to surgical protocols show evidence of pain is important if we are to provide rational postoperative analgesia without compromising experimental objectives. The goal of this study was to evaluate both subjective and objective measures for pain evaluation in male Wistar rats subjected to sham middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) surgery and to determine whether buprenorphine would be an appropriate analgesic in this surgical model. Male Wistar rats underwent a sham 2-h MCAO by the intraluminal filament technique followed by 22-h of recovery. Animals were randomly assigned to one of three postoperative treatment groups: vehicle only (VH; vehicle subcutaneously [s.c.] + plain jello orally), low-dose buprenorphine (LB; 0.05 mg/kg s.c. _ 0.25 mg/kg drug-in-jello orally), and high-dose buprenorphine (HB; 0.5 mg/kg s.c. + 0.25 mg/kg drug-in-jello orally). Animals received subcutaneous treatments prior to anesthetic recovery and approximately 18-h later. Jello treatments were given once at the end of the surgery day. We modified a previously published behavioral scoring system which is based on subjective and objective measures for pain evaluation. All animals were evaluated for pain before sham surgery (baseline) and at 3-, 18-, and 22-h postoperatively by observers who were blinded to treatment group. Brains were removed at 22-h after surgery and evaluated by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining to confirm lack of brain injury from the sham procedure. Sham intraoperative physiological variables were equivalent among treatment groups. Baseline assessment scores were zero for all groups. Postoperatively, all treatment groups showed elevated assessment scores relative to baseline values. Buprenorphine at the tested doses did not markedly reduce total assessment scores postoperatively relative to those in vehicle-treated animals. Further evaluation of rodent postoperative pain and response to analgesia is needed if we are to formulate a sound scientific approach to animal management in protocols requiring surgical manipulations.
12458974	Preventive strategies against weight gain and obesity.	A well-resourced, comprehensive, population-based set of strategies is needed to attenuate and eventually reverse the current trends of increasing obesity prevalence now apparent in most countries. The Epidemiological Triad (host, vector, environment) has proven to be a robust model for other epidemics and is applied to obesity. Host-based strategies are primarily educational and these tend to be most effective among people with higher incomes and higher educational attainment. The main vectors for a high-energy intake are energy-dense foods and drinks and large portion sizes and, for low energy expenditure, machines that promote physical inactivity. Vector-based strategies that alter food formulation can have a significant impact, particularly through influencing common, high-volume foods. The increasingly 'obesogenic' environments are probably the main driving forces for the obesity epidemic. There are many environmental strategies that can influence the physical, economic, policy or socio-cultural environments, but the evidence base for these potentially powerful interventions is small. Children should be the priority population for interventions, and improving the general socio-economic conditions for disadvantaged, marginalized or poor population sectors is also a central strategy for obesity prevention. The key settings for interventions are schools, homes, neighbourhoods, primary health care services and communities. The key macroenvironments for interventions are the transport and infrastructure sector, the media and the food sector.
12474940	Study of the dosimetric characteristics of cosmic radiation at civil aviation altitudes.	The dependence of the doses on solar activity for intermediate levels of the solar modulation parameter has been studied by means of simulations carried out by the Monte Carlo transport code FLUKA. The vertical cut-off rigidities investigated lie between 0.4 and 6.1 GV. The calculated results show that the linear dependence proposed in a previous work, for the effective dose rate as a function of the solar modulation parameter, can be considered as an acceptable approximation. In addition, some dosimetric characteristics of cosmic radiation and some properties of the dosemeters in use for monitoring in the cosmic ray environment have been analysed with a view to simplifying measurements. The depth-dose curves in the ICRU sphere and the response of a tissue-equivalent ionisation chamber have been determined by the FLUKA code for a number of cosmic ray spectra On the basis of the calculated results, it is concluded that a value of the depth. d, which would make the ambient dose equivalent a conservative predictor of the effective dose, cannot be specified for cosmic radiation. However, the operational quantity can be useful in order to verify the predictions of Monte Carlo calculations. It is demonstrated that a crude approximation of the ambient dose equivalent could be obtained by multiplying by 2 the absorbed dose measured by a tissue-equivalent ionisation chamber with wall thickness of 10 mm.
12479023	[Diagnosis and treatment of urethral condyloma acuminatum in male patients]	OBJECTIVES: To present experience on the diagnosis and treatment of urethral condyloma acuminatum (CA) in male patients. METHODS: Twenty-one cases of urethral CA were studied. The lesion of urethral meatus and intraurethal were resected by electrofulguration or operation and Urethroscopy, respectively. All patients were received intraurethral instillation and local therapy of 5% 5-fluorouracil solution. RESULTS: The patients had been followed up for three to twelve months. Cure rate was 76.2%, recurrence rate was 23.89%. CONCLUSIONS: Transurethral endoscopy is a reliable diagnosis and treatment method. Intraurethral instillation and local therapy of 5% 5-fluorouracil solution may prevent the recurrence of CA.
12481151	Impact of birth weight on familial aggregation of end-stage renal disease.	BACKGROUND: Birth weight (BW) and family history (FH) of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have been shown to have an independent association with development of subsequent ESRD. This study was undertaken to determine the effects of BW (low BW suggesting a congenital reduction in functional nephron number) on the observed familial aggregation of ESRD. METHODS: Cases were identified from the ESRD Network 6 &quot;Family History of ESRD&quot; Study and BW was determined from birth certificate records maintained at the Office of Vital Records, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control. BW and FH of ESRD data were available in 387 patients who initiated dialysis therapy between 1993 and 1997. Multiple logistic regression analysis was performed to assess the risk of low BW (&lt;2,500 g) and high BW (> or =4,000 g) on FH of ESRD. RESULTS: A FH of ESRD in first or second-degree relatives was present in 24% of cases. No significant differences were observed in the frequency of a positive FH of ESRD in those with low BW compared to those with normal BW. There was a significant reduction in the prevalence of a FH of ESRD in those with high BW, compared to those with a normal BW (risk ratio 0.32, CI 0.11-0.94). CONCLUSION: The clustering of either high BW or low BW within multiply affected ESRD families does not account for the observed familial aggregation of ESRD. In addition, high BW was associated with a reduced familial aggregation of ESRD.
12484702	Anatomy and histopathology of human meibomian gland.	PURPOSE: To investigate histopathologic changes in human meibomian gland. METHODS: Human meibomian gland samples were obtained at autopsy from 50 men and 33 women aged from 17 to 87 years with a mean age (+/- SD) of 61 +/- 13 years. Pieces of tarsal plate measuring 3 x 3 mm including meibomian glands were excised from the center of both upper eyelids, then fixed and embedded in paraffin. Sections 4-microm thick were stained with hematoxylin and eosin and periodic acid-Schiff. Light microscopy was used to observe any histopathologic changes. RESULTS: The following histopathologic changes were observed: (1) cystic dilatation of acini and/or ducts, (2) atrophy of acini, (3) basement membrane thickening of acini, (4) granulation tissue, and (5) lipogranulomatous inflammation. CONCLUSION: Various histopathologic changes were observed in the human meibomian gland. Hyperkeratinization of ductal epithelium and atrophy of acinar cells may cause meibomian gland dysfunction.
12485795	Characterization of the bone-like apatite precipitated on high velocity oxy-fuel (HVOF) sprayed calcium phosphate deposits.	Bone-like apatite was precipitated on the surface of thermal sprayed calcium phosphate coatings following in vitro incubation in a simulated body fluid. The coatings were initially deposited on titanium alloy substrates by the high velocity oxy-fuel (HVOF) spray technique. Structural characterization and mechanical evaluation of the precipitated apatite layer were conducted. Results showed that the precipitation rate was directly influenced by the local Ca(2+) concentration in the vicinity of the coating's surface and that preferential dissolution of certain phases was found to accelerate the precipitation of the bone-like apatite. The dense precipitates exhibited a competitive Young's modulus value of approximately 120GPa, which was obtained through nanoindentation. This compared favorably to the calcium phosphate matrix. Differences in microstructure at various locations within the layer resulted in altered Young's modulus and microhardness values. Precipitation mechanism investigation was carried out through a comparative experiment. Chemical analysis showed that the precipitation of bone-like apatite on the calcium phosphate coating was quite conceivably a partial diffusion-controlled process.
12487442	Proteolytic specificity of Lactobacillus delbrueckli subsp. bulgaricus influences functional properties of mozzarella cheese.	Low-moisture part-skim Mozzarella cheeses were manufactured from 2% fat milk and aged for 21 d. Treatments included cheeses made with one of three different strains of Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus in combination with a single strain of Streptococcus thermophilus. A fourth, control treatment consisted of cheeses made with only S. thermophilus. Although total proteolytic ability of these strains, as indicated by the o-phthaldialdehyde analysis, was similar in each of the three strains of L. bulgaricus, these strains exhibited different proteolytic specificities toward the peptide, alpha(s1)-CN (f 1-23). On the basis of their alpha(s1)-CN (f 1-23) cleavage patterns and a previously described classification, these strains were assigned to the groups I, III, and V. The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of lactobacilli proteolytic systems, based on specificity toward alpha(s1)-CN (f 1-23), on functionality of part-skim Mozzarella cheese. Moisture, fat, protein, salt-in-moisture, and moisture in nonfat substances content of cheeses made with groups I, III, and V strain were similar. Control cheese had a lower moisture content than did other treatments. Significant differences were observed in functional properties between cheeses manufactured using groups III and V strains. Cheeses made with groups I and III strains were similar in their meltability, hardness, cohesiveness, melt strength, and stretch quality. Meltability and cohesiveness increased with age, while melt strength and stretch quality decreased with age for all cheeses. Additionally, HPLC showed that total peak areas of water-soluble peptides derived from cleavage of alpha(s1)-CN (f 1-23) by different strains of lactobacilli could be highly correlated to meltability and stretch characteristics of cheeses made with those strains.
12488523	Generic task-related occupational requirements for Royal Naval personnel.	Physical tests and selection criteria have historically been used by many military organizations. However, the standards associated with them have come under increasing scrutiny in recent years. This paper describes a series of experiments that were conducted to establish task-related occupational tests and standards (TBTs) for Royal Naval (RN) personnel. A total of 172 (106 male and 66 female) RN personnel volunteered for these experiments, which were designed to: identify the anthropometric requirements for operating various safety hatches and doors on board a RN Frigate (TBT1); quantify the metabolic demands of shipboard firefighting tasks and establish an aerobic fitness standard (TBT2); and identify a battery of tests to predict performance of shipboard casualty-carrying tasks (TBT3). Whilst all subjects completed the criterion tasks during TBT1, performance of the bulkhead door (BD) escape task was related to height (r = 0.50- 0.62, P &lt; 0.05) and vertical reach (r = 0.42-0.54, P &lt; 0.05), with shorter subjects struggling to perform the task. During TBT2, the mean metabolic demand of representative firefighting tasks was 38 ml/min/kg, which must be sustained for 20-30 min. Finally, a battery of tests incorporating measures of lean body mass, fat mass, standing broad jump, 20 m sprint, press-ups, sit-ups and grip strength produced a high correlation (r = 0.89, P &lt; 0.01) with casualty-carrying task performance. From the results of these experiments, it is recommended that RN personnel perform the BD simulation task at the recruitment stage (TBT1), to prove that they possess the anthropometric characteristics commensurate with survival at sea. Secondly, personnel should be frequently screened to ascertain whether they have the maximal aerobic power (41 ml/min/kg) commensurate with shipboard firefighting for 20-30 min (TBT2). Finally, they should perform the battery of proposed tests and score at least 34 points, in order to establish whether they have the anaerobic and strength capacity commensurate with shipboard casualty-carrying tasks (TBT3).
12494746	1H-NMR assay of papaverine hydrochloride and formulations.	A precise and specific 1H-NMR method has been developed for the assay of papaverine hydrochloride (1) as a bulk drug, as well as in tablet and injection dosage forms. The assay depends upon the integration of the 12 protons of the four methoxy groups of 1 relative to that of the three methyl protons of acetanilide (internal standard). In addition to the accurate quantitative determination of 1, the method provides a specific means of identifying 1 as well as detecting other alkaloids or impurities.
12495577	Synergistic effects of low level stressors in an oxidative damage model of spinal motor neuron degeneration.	BACKGROUND: An increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) burden and subsequent oxidative damage to nucleic acids, proteins, and lipids, occurs during the normal aging process of cells, including neurons. OBJECTIVE: With this in mind we hypothesize that an oxidative stress which leads to an increased state of oxidation, but is not itself lethal, nonetheless renders the motor neuron more vulnerable to other sublethal stressors. METHOD AND RESULTS: We have combined paraquat-induced oxidative stress with sublethal increased exogenous glutamate, or thermal stress, or a combination of both, and demonstrate a synergistic effect of low-level stressors on the viability of motor neurons. CONCLUSION: This model of low-level oxidative stress reveals the subsequent vulnerability of motor neurons to genetic or environmental stressors and may in part explain the mid-life/late-life symptom onset in both familial and sporadic ALS patients.
12498233	Evaluation of calibration data in capillary electrophoresis using artificial neural networks to increase precision of analysis.	Increase of precision in capillary electrophoresis can be achieved applying suitable markers and evaluating calibration curves and data analysis with artificial neural networks. They are able to account for errors in both x- and y-axes, nonlinear response of detector and non-linearity of calibration curves eventually. A comparison of the artificial neural networks approach with ordinary least-squares (OLS) and bivariate least-squares regression (BLS) was done. While OLS and BLS give similar results, the method proposed and tested in analysis of several pharmaceutical products yields lower prediction errors than traditional linear least-squares methods and the precision of analysis was found in the range 0.5-1.5% relative.
12503842	Maintained improvement with minocycline of a patient with advanced Huntington's disease.	We present the case of a patient with advanced Huntington's disease treated with minocycline. Minocycline (but not tetracycline which does not cross the blood-brain barrier) appears to increase longevity in an animal model for Huntington's disease. The patient has been maintained on minocycline for more than 1 year with positive effects. Cessation of minocyclin for 3 weeks resulted in an exacerbation of symptoms. The animal studies have suggested that minocycline may prevent progression of Huntington's disease and other neurological disorders. By contrast, this present result suggests that minocycline may benefit those with advanced Huntington's disease and can be used safely in these patients.
12505085	Correlations between surface and interface energies with respect to crystal nucleation.	The energetic chemical and structural properties of interfaces between solid and liquid metals are of great interest in numerous applications. However, solid-liquid interfacial energies of metals are often determined by nucleation experiments, requiring particular attention to the measurements so obtained. The purpose of this paper is to conduct an analysis of the level of liquid undercooling of 3d-, 4d-, and 5d-transition metals, as well as of other common undercooled elements, through a critical survey of thermophysical data and experimental results. As already pointed out for the liquid-vapor surface energy sigma(LV), the solid-liquid interface energy sigma(LS) determined from the maximum amount of liquid undercooling is well connected to the position of the element in the periodic table, leading to the individualization of each behavior, including the size of the critical nucleus. The beta ratio of sigma(LS)/sigma(LV) is demonstrated to be an interesting dimensionless number by which to classify the elements into distinctive groups. No significant unexplained anomaly is identified, except for Co, supporting the belief that Turnbull's classical theory furnishes a robust support to describe the crystal nucleation in pure elements.
12509219	Phosphatidylserine exposure in platelet concentrates during the storage period: differences between the platelets collected with different cell separators.	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Platelet alterations occur during the production and storage of platelet concentrates, the so called &quot;storage lesion&quot;. We studied the platelet alterations during the storage period in apheresis concentrates, employing flow cytometry for phosphatidylserine (PS) detection on platelets during the five days of storage. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Twenty-seven single donor platelet concentrates harvested with the Cobe Trima, Baxter Amicus, or Haemonetics MCS+ were analyzed for PS exposure by flow cytometry on the day of production (day 1) and on days 3 and 5 of storage. Furthermore PS expression was analyzed in platelet donors' blood samples withdrawn before plateletpheresis. RESULTS: PS expression on platelets gave the following median values: in blood donors before apheresis it was 1.12% (0.13-1.78) in platelets concentrates on the first day (2 h after apheresis) 2.06% (0.66-15.2), the third day 6.57% (1.98-51.13) and the fifth day 23.04% (3.86-80.23). All differences between median values of PS expression in blood samples before apheresis, and platelets concentrates on days 1, 3 and 5 of storage, are statistically significant. The expression of PS in platelet concentrates was analyzed in relation to the blood cell separator used for the collection procedure and showed the following results: on day 1 the median values of PS in platelet concentrates collected with the three different blood cell separators, Trima, Cobe and MCS, did not show statistically significant differences. On day 3, the platelets concentrates collected with the Trima and with the MCS showed differences that were statistically significant. Those were respectively 10.59% (4.56-51.13) and 3.53% (1.98-12.61), p = 0.005. The PS expression in platelet concentrates collected with the Trima and MCS showed differences that are also statistically significant on day 5 at respectively 32.4% (9.61-80.23) and 8.57% (3.86-48.42), p = 0.005. CONCLUSIONS: PS exposure in platelet concentrates on days 3 and 5 rise to levels that could compromise the quality of the platelet units. Improvements in standardized platelet quality controls, and in platelet collection systems are required to reduce the storage lesions in platelets concentrates.
12510892	Assessment of rDNA IGS as a molecular marker in the Simulium damnosum complex.	For five cytospecies of the Simulium damnosum Theobald complex of blackflies (Diptera: Simuliidae) from West Africa, both ends of the intergenic spacer region (IGS) of the rDNA have been sequenced with the aim of developing specific molecular markers. No specific differences in these two regions were detected between Simulium sanctipauli V. &amp; D., Simulium sirbanum V. &amp; D., Simulium soubrense V. &amp; D., Simulium squamosum Enderlein and Simulium yahense V. &amp; D., except in the number of A subrepeats at the 5' end of the IGS (two in S. squamosum and four or five in the others) and in position 310 of the 3' end (a C in S. squamosum and a G in the others). However, genetic distances within and between species overlapped. These DNA sequences had no strong phylogenetic signal, and the trees obtained were mostly unresolved. Although most sequences from S. squamosum clustered together, a few of them were more similar to those in other cytospecies. These results could be explained either by hybridization with genetic introgression or by ancestral polymorphism and recent speciation.
12513938	Temporomandibular joint arthroscopic findings in patients with cervical flexion-extension injury (whiplash): a preliminary study of 30 patients.	PURPOSE: To investigate arthroscopic findings for the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) in 30 patients with refractory TMJ symptoms who had suffered cervical flexion-extension injury (whiplash). METHODS: The clinical data and operative reports of all patients with a diagnosis of TMJ whiplash injury who underwent TMJ arthroscopic procedures from 1997 to 2002 were reviewed. All patients underwent preoperative clinical, panoramic, arthrographic, magnetic resonance imaging evaluation or computed tomography (or some combination). The same surgical team performed all diagnostic and therapeutic arthroscopic procedures in patients for whom conservative therapy had failed. Before the arthroscopic surgery, all of the patients had received at least 3 to 6 months of nonsurgical therapy consisting of anti-inflammatory medications, muscle relaxants, splint therapy, physiotherapy (specifically transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, moist heat, cold laser, and ultrasonography) and a soft diet. RESULTS: A spectrum of arthroscopic findings, ranging from chondromalacia (softening of the articular fibrocartilage) to moderate or severe synovitis and adhesions, was observed, as well as combinations of these abnormalities. CONCLUSION: The primary intracapsular pathologic changes observed during TMJ arthroscopic examination of 30 patients who suffered cervical whiplash injury appear to be nonspecific, varying along a wide spectrum of findings.
12515690	Predicting children's short-term exposure to pesticides: results of a questionnaire screening approach.	The ability of questionnaires to predict children's exposure to pesticides was examined as part of the Minnesota Children's Pesticide Exposure Study (MNCPES). The MNCPES focused on a probability sample of 102 children between the ages of 3 and 13 years living in either urban (Minneapolis and St. Paul, MN) or nonurban (Rice and Goodhue Counties in Minnesota) households. Samples were collected in a variety of relevant media (air, food, beverages, tap water, house dust, soil, urine), and chemical analyses emphasized three organophosphate insecticides (chlorpyrifos, diazinon, malathion) and a herbicide (atrazine). Results indicate that the residential pesticide-use questions and overall screening approach used in the MNCPES were ineffective for identifying and oversampling children/households with higher levels of individual target pesticides.
12520105	Diagnostic survey of bovine abortion in Korea: with special emphasis on Neospora caninum.	Causes of bovine abortion were surveyed in Korea within a designated period from the cases submitted to the Department of Veterinary Pathology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul National University. One hundred and eighty aborted fetuses and maternal sera were evaluated by necropsy, histopathology, bacteriology, virology, PCR, and serologic tests. The causes of abortion were identified in 108 (60%) cases, of which 38 (21.1%) were due to the infection with Neospora caninum. None of the 38 cases showed any co-infection with either virus or bacteria. Viral and bacterial causes were diagnosed in 28 (15.5%) and 13 (7.2%) aborted fetuses, respectively. Non-infectious causes such as multiple pregnancy, maternal weakness or torsion of umbilical cord were observed in 22 (12.3%) cases. Results of the present study suggest that N. caninum is believed to be the leading cause of bovine abortion in Korea. Thus, more attention should be paid to this emerging disease in Korea. However, the causes of many aborted fetuses remain undiagnosed in this study. Therefore, this enigma should be clarified through further studies such as chromosomal analysis.
12526224	[Analysis of clinical efficiency of treatment for 179 geriatric women with stage I or II cervical carcinoma]	BACKGROUND &amp; OBJECTIVE: Elderly women with cervical carcinoma have the features of poor prognosis and high incidence rate of complications. This study was designed to evaluate the prognostic impact of surgery versus radiotherapy in old women with stage I and stage II cervical carcinoma and seek suitable treatment for such patients. METHODS: Clinical data of 179 elderly women with stage Ia to stage IIb cervical cancer were analyzed retrospectively. One hundred and thirty-four cases underwent radical hysterectomy also received appropriate adjuvant radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. Forty-five cases underwent radiation therapy received appropriate adjuvant chemotherapy. RESULTS: The 5-year survival rates of patients underwent surgery and radiotherapy were 78.32% and 49.08% (P = 0.04), respectively. The incidence rate of complications of patients receiving surgery was 47.01% (63/134). Three patients died of complications after radical hysterectomy. The incidence rate of complications of patients underwent radiotherapy was 75.63% (34/45). CONCLUSION: Geriatric patients with stage I and stage II cervical carcinoma should receive operation if possible and should receive adjuvant treatments according to personal conditions.
12527999	Ropinirole as an adjunct to levodopa in the treatment of Parkinson's disease: a 16-week bromocriptine controlled study.	BACKGROUND: and objectives Ropinirole is a non-ergoline, selective dopamine D(2) agonist. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ropinirole as an adjunct to levodopa in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) complicated by motor fluctuations. METHODS: A total of 76 patients with PD (Hoehn and Yahr stage II to IV) were included in this trial. Each patient was randomly allocated to receive either ropinirole (n = 37) or bromocriptine (n = 39) as an adjunct to levodopa over a 16-week period. Ropinirole and bromocriptine were titrated for optimal efficacy and tolerability. This optimal dose was then maintained for the rest of the study. Response rate was defined as the percentage of patients who achieved at least a 20 % reduction in levodopa dose. Clinical status was also assessed using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Clinical Global Impression (CGI), and reduction in time spent 'off'. RESULTS: Ropinirole produced a significantly greater response rate than bromocriptine (odds ratio 2.995, 95 % C. I. (1.157, 7.751) p &lt; 0.05). There was also a statistically significant difference between the groups in the proportion of patients who were 'improved' on the CGI improvement scale (91.9 % for ropinirole, 74.3 % for bromocriptine, p = 0.046). Other measures, including at least a 20 % improvement in the UPDRS motor score (70 % for ropinirole and 63.3 % for bromocriptine), and a 20 % reduction in 'off' duration (81 % for ropinirole and 52.4 % for bromocriptine) showed a trend in favour of ropinirole. There was no significant difference between the two groups in the overall incidence of adverse effects (ropinirole, 59.5 %; bromocriptine, 59 %). In each group, the most common side-effects were dizziness, dyskinesia and nausea/vomiting. No patients were withdrawn from the study because of side-effects. CONCLUSION: Ropinirole was found to be safe and well-tolerated. Ropinirole as an adjunct to levodopa in the treatment of PD with motor fluctuation was associated with more significant reduction of levodopa dose and, on one form of analysis, with significantly greater improvement in CGI ratings than bromocriptine. On the other efficacy measures the two drugs were comparable.
12534953	Modelling the 3-year risk of myocardial infarction among participants in the Data Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs (DAD) study.	OBJECTIVES: To estimate the 3-year risk of myocardial infarction (MI) among participants in the Data Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs (DAD) study. METHODS: Conventional cardiovascular risk equations were applied to baseline data from the DAD study to estimate the 3-year risk of MI. Best estimates were obtained by simply applying the risk equations, with upper and lower limits based on worst case and optimistic case scenarios. Three-year risks of AIDS or death were also estimated based on a prognostic scoring system for patients receiving antiretroviral (ARV) treatment, and on estimated AIDS rates in untreated people with HIV for those patients not on ARVs or if they were to cease ARVs. RESULTS: Analyses were based on 17 600 patients (24.3% female) recruited into the DAD study with baseline data and no previous MI. The overall 3-year risk of MI was estimated to be 0.72% (lower limit 0.35, upper limit 1.12%), corresponding to a total predicted 127 (65-197) MIs over a 3-year follow-up period. The risk was much greater for men than women (0.92% vs. 0.07%), with only three (2-8) MIs predicted in women. The 3-year risk of MI was estimated to increase from 0.30% (0.20-0.38%) in ARV naive patients to 1.07% (0.43-1.77%) in patients receiving ARVs from all three drug classes. The estimated 3-year risk of AIDS or death was in the range 6.2% to 11.1% in patients receiving ARVs if they continued treatment, and 22.5% to 29.4% if they ceased ARVs. DISCUSSION: These models suggest that although the increase in relative risk of MI as a result of ARV treatment may be as high as threefold in a worst case scenario, the absolute risk is modest with a best estimate of 3-year risk less than or equal to 1% in all groups of patients, and is outweighed by the benefits of ARV treatment in terms of reduced risk of AIDS and death in most patients. As estimates are based on models not validated for people receiving ARV drugs, all estimates should be interpreted cautiously.
12537230	The fenestrated Kawashima operation for single ventricle with interrupted inferior vena cava.	An 8-month-old boy with double outlet right ventricle with hypoplastic left ventricle, heterotaxy, left atrial isomerism, bilateral superior vena cavae without bridging vein, and interruption of the inferior vena cava with azygous continuation to the left superior cava underwent a bilateral bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis. A calibrated 3-mm connection between the right pulmonary artery and the common atrium was constructed with the proximal right superior vena cava to allow right to left shunting, analogous to a fenestration in a Fontan operation. We hypothesize that in small young patients undergoing the Kawashima operation a fenestration may improve postoperative hemodynamics.
12539633	[Cephalometric analysis of the patients with bimaxillary protrusion in south China]	OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to characterize the teeth, jaws and soft tissues of the patients with bimaxillary protrusion in south China. METHODS: The results of cephalometric analysis of 60 patients with bimaxillary protrusion were compared with the normal occlusions in Beijing. RESULTS: Compared with the normals in Beijing, the mandibles of the subjects were positioned more backward and rotated inferior-posteriorily. The incisors inclined extremely to the labial side and the lower lip was thicker. The mental thickness was less than the normal, and the mental contour was not clear. The middle face was eminent. CONCLUSION: The results suggest it is of critical importance to manage to adjust the position of jaws, to control the molar anchorage strictly, and to achieve the maximal incisor retraction, so as to benefit the improvement of facial features.
12541753	[Determination of benproperine phosphate tablets by high performance liquid chromatography]	A reversed-phase HPLC method for the determination of benproperine phosphate tablets is reported. The chromatographic conditions were Hypersil-C18 column(5 microns, 4.6 mm i.d. x 150 mm) at 35 degrees C, mobile phase of methanol-water-glacial acetic acid-triethylamine(60:35:5:0.1, V/V) with a flow rate of 0.9 mL/min and UV detection at 270 nm. Cortisone acetate was selected as the internal standard. The linear relationship of calibration curve was good in the range of 9.96 mg/L-49.8 mg/L(r = 0.9998). The average recovery and RSD were 99.91%(n = 5) and 0.43% respectively. The total time of analysis for a run was within 7 min. The method is simple, sensitive, rapid and accurate.
12541806	[Study of unified analytical method of compatibleness for traditional Chinese medicines. I. Separation, recognition of characteristic components and fingerprint analysis for single and complex medicines]	It is difficult to separate, identify and quantify multi-component in complex traditional Chinese medicines (TCM). Many analytical methods for TCM have been established, but only a few components can be separated and quantified. For analyzing the multi-component and finding new method of compatibility analysis, a strategy--the multi-mode and multi-column chromatographic system and unified analytical method has been proposed by us. A part of the results from the study of astragalus root(A), Chinese angelica root(Ca.) and their complex prescription (Danggui Buxue Tang, DBT) with the analytical mode of reversed-phase HPLC/photodiode array detector as an example of the method for unified separation and recognition of characteristic components and fingerprint analysis was introduced. This is the first part of the results of compatibleness analysis for TCM.
12542491	Allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation for the treatment of adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma.	The feasibility of allogeneic haematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) in 11 patients with adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma (ATL) (6 acute, 4 lymphoma, 1 chronic type) was evaluated. The preparative regimens (9 conventional, 2 reduced-intensity) were tolerable. Five patients developed acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and three, extensive chronic GVHD. All 10 patients who survived > 30 d achieved complete remission. Estimated 1-year overall and disease-free survival rates were 53 +/- 30% and 45 +/- 29% respectively. Four patients remain alive and disease-free at a median follow-up of 25 months. The others died of transplantation-related complications. This pilot study suggests that allo-HSCT in ATL should be evaluated further.
12544707	Audiovestibular manifestations in giant cell arteritis: a prospective study.	Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a multisystemic vasculitis of elderly people that involves large and medium-sized blood vessels with predisposition to the cranial arteries. Some cranial ischemic manifestations, in particular permanent visual loss, have been widely described. Audiovestibular manifestations have been less commonly reported. In the present study we assessed the frequency and outcome of audiovestibular manifestations in a series of GCA and isolated polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) patients examined prospectively between June 1999 and May 2001 at the single hospital for a defined population. Patients were included in the study if a temporal artery biopsy had been performed and they were examined within a week after beginning corticosteroid treatment. Patients with abnormal otoscopy or tympanogram, history of cerebrovascular complications, syphilis, Mnire and other vestibular syndromes, infections involving the inner ear, barotrauma, or being treated with ototoxic drugs were excluded. During the study period 44 patients with GCA and 10 patients with biopsy-negative isolated PMR were examined. Patients with isolated PMR were younger. Audiovestibular dysfunction was significantly more frequent in GCA patients than in those with isolated PMR and matched controls. Almost 90% of the GCA patients had vestibular dysfunction, which was generally reversible after several days of steroid treatment; after 3 months of treatment, vestibular dysfunction was observed in only 13 (29.6%) of the 44 GCA patients. These patients with persistent vestibular dysfunction were more likely to have persistent head-shaking nystagmus. Twelve (27.3%) of the 44 GCA patients had hearing improvement after 3 months of therapy. After 6 months of therapy, only 1 of the 44 GCA patients had abnormal vestibular tests. However, no additional improvement in hearing function was observed. The present study confirms a high frequency of audiovestibular manifestations in GCA. It also suggests that audiovestibular damage may be reversible in some patients with GCA.
12545411	Relationship power, decision making, and sexual relations: an exploratory study with couples of Mexican origin.	This study explored how couples of Mexican origin define power in intimate relationships, what makes men and women feel powerful in relationships, and the role of each partner in decision making about sexual and reproductive matters. Interviews were conducted with each partner of 39 sexually active couples and data were analyzed using content analysis. Results indicate that power is perceived as control over one s partner and the ability to make decisions. Women say they feel more powerful in relationships when they make unilateral decisions and have economic independence. Men feel powerful when they have control over their partner and bring home money. Respondents agreed that women make decisions about household matters and children, while men make decisions related to money. Findings indicate that whereas couples share decision making about sexual activities and contraceptive use, men are seen as initiators of sexual activity and women are more likely to suggest condom use.
12550807	The iliolumbar ligament: its influence on stability of the sacroiliac joint.	STUDY DESIGN: In human specimens the influence of the iliolumbar ligament on sacroiliac joint stability was tested during incremental moments applied to the sacroiliac joints. OBJECTIVES: To assess whether the iliolumbar ligament is able to restrict sacroiliac joint mobility in embalmed cadavers. BACKGROUND: Firstly, the sacroiliac joint can play an important role in non-specific low back pain; hence, its mobility and stability are of special interest. Secondly, the iliolumbar ligament is considered to be an important source of chronic low back pain. Data on a functional relation between the iliolumbar ligament and sacroiliac joint mobility are lacking. METHODS: In 12 human specimens an incremental moment was applied to the sacroiliac joint to induce rotation in the sagittal plane. After the assessment of the relationship between rotation angle and moment in the intact situation, specific parts of the iliolumbar ligaments were transected. After each partial transection the measurements were repeated. RESULTS: Sacroiliac joint mobility in the sagittal plane was significantly increased after a total cut of both iliolumbar ligaments. This increase was in particular due to the transection of a specific part of the iliolumbar ligament, the ventral band. CONCLUSIONS: The main conclusions are: (a) the iliolumbar ligaments restrict sacroiliac joint sagittal mobility; (b) the ventral band of the iliolumbar ligament contributes most to this restriction. RELEVANCE: In embalmed human cadavers, the mobility of the sacroiliac joint increases after sequential cutting of specific parts of the iliolumbar ligaments. It can be expected that severance of this ligament during surgery will lead to increase of mobility and hence loss of stability of the sacroiliac joint. As a consequence adjacent structures will be affected. This may well be a cause of pain in patients with failed back surgery.
12559306	Management of priapism in the newborn.	We report a case of priapism in a newborn and the results of a review of the publications on neonatal priapism. A preterm newborn developed idiopathic priapism on the first day after birth. The priapism disappeared after 4 days of observation. Periods with normal penile erection were reported at follow-up after 20 months. The results of the literature review also advocate management by observation alone.
12566310	Computational analysis and experimental validation of tumor-associated alternative RNA splicing in human cancer.	A genome-wide computational screen was performed to identify tumor-associated alternative RNA splicing isoforms. A BLAST algorithm was used to compare 11,014 genes from RefSeq with 3,471,822 human expressed sequence tag sequences. The screen identified 26,258 alternative splicing isoforms of which 845 were significantly associated with human cancer, and 54 were specifically associated with liver cancer. Furthermore, canonical GT-AG splice junctions were used significantly less frequently in the alternative splicing isoforms in tumors. Reverse transcription-PCR experiments confirmed association of the alternative splicing isoforms with tumors. These results suggest that alternative splicing may have potential as a diagnostic marker for cancer.
12569546	Indirect laser-induced fluorescence detection for capillary electrophoresis using a frequency-doubled diode laser.	A blue (452 nm) frequency-doubled diode laser with a quasi-cw optical output power of 10 microW is used for indirect laser-induced fluorescence detection in combination with the capillary electrophoretic separation of inorganic anions. As fluorescing probe ion the anion of 8-hydroxypyrene-1,3,6-trisulfonic acid (HPTS) was selected having an absorption maximum of 454 nm in alkaline medium. Employing a capillary coated with linear acrylamide, baseline separation of eight inorganic anions was possible within 5 min. With a separation buffer containing 50 micromol.L(-1) HPTS and 10 mmol.L(-1) lysine the limits of detection for sulfate, nitrite, nitrate, azide, thiocyanate, and chlorate were between 0.9 and 4.7 micromol.L(-1). Separation of chloride and sulfate was achieved by adding 0.25 mmol.L(-1) calcium hydroxide to the separation buffer. Inorganic anions in several mineral and tap water samples have been determined with the technique developed and results are compared to data obtained by ion chromatography in combination with conductivity detection after conductivity suppression.
12571170	Low 11-deoxycortisol to cortisol conversion reflects extra-adrenal factors in the majority of women with normo-gonadotrophic normo-estrogenic infertility.	BACKGROUND: Women with normogonadotrophic normo-estrogenic oligomenorrhoea often disclose a variety of clinical symptoms. Many of these individuals are obese with features of pseudo-hypercortisolism. In the current study, 11-deoxycortisol and cortisol concentrations were determined in this group and compared with ovulatory controls. METHODS AND RESULTS: Twenty-six women with clomiphene citrate-resistant infertility, 12 lean and 11 obese ovulatory controls were studied. Women with infertility had the highest 11-deoxycortisol concentrations (mean +/- SD: 4.1 +/- 1.5 ng/ml) compared with obese and lean controls (3.1 +/- 1.4 and 2.4 +/- 0.9 ng/ml) (P &lt; 0.01), but similar morning cortisol concentrations (0.47 +/- 0.15, 0.45 +/- 0.16 and 0.47 +/- 0.18 nmol/l). Baseline 11-deoxycortisol/cortisol ratios (>90th percentile of ovulatory controls) were elevated in 23/26 infertile women (88%), and in 3/26 women (12%) after adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) stimulation. Three out of six lean infertile women had elevated baseline 11-deoxycortisol/cortisol ratios, but none of these women had elevated ratios after ACTH stimulation. Stepwise regression analysis, after exclusion of testosterone, revealed significant correlations between the groups (lean controls, obese controls, infertility) and ACTH-stimulated 11-deoxycortisol/cortisol ratio (P &lt; 0.05), but not with fasting glucose, insulin, cortisol, 11-deoxycortisol and baseline 11-deoxycortisol/cortisol ratios. CONCLUSIONS: Congenital adrenal hyperplasia was not observed in the majority of infertile women. The data indicate that extra-adrenal factors were involved in most of the infertility syndromes that were studied.
12573056	Development of an adenovirus-shedding assay for the detection of adenoviral vector-based vaccine and gene therapy products in clinical specimens.	Adenoviral vectors are used widely as gene therapy and vaccine delivery systems. An adenovirus-shedding assay may be performed in clinical trials to monitor the safety of the vector and to investigate the potential relation between clinical symptoms and shed vector virus. This report describes the development and statistical performance of the shedding assay. Live adenovirus was recovered from throat swab and urine samples spiked with E1-deleted adenovirus type 5 vector expressing HIV-1 gag [Ad5HIVgag], in the presence or absence of wild-type adenovirus (WT Ad5). Samples were cultured in 293 and A549 cells, and the DNA extracted from virus culture was tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for sequence identity. The results showed that the frequency of Ad5HIVgag infectivity in 293 cells by cytopathic effect (CPE) or an immunofluorescence assay (IFA) was concentration-dependent (53% for 10(2), 94% for 10(4), and 100% for 10(6) viral particles). WT Ad5 virus did not interfere with Ad5HIVgag. PCR amplisets could specifically amplify target sequences in the background of nonspecific DNA matrices and could distinguish Ad5HIVgag from wild-type adenoviruses. This assay may be used for clinical trials using adenovirus vectors as vehicles for vaccines.
12573795	Incoherent imaging using continuous wave ultrasound. A preliminary study using bovine intervertebral discs.	As an object rotates with respect to a stationary planar ultrasonic beam, the scattering centres within the object return echoes that are Doppler-shifted in frequency by amounts depending on the velocities of the individual scatterers. The backscattered echo amplitude at any particular frequency is the line integral of the scattered radiation at the cross-range corresponding to that frequency. The amplitude as a function of frequency can be interpreted as a tomographic projection. A tomographic reconstruction algorithm can produce an image of the distribution of scattering centres in the insonified object from these projections. This paper describes the development and characterisation of a microscanner to investigate the approach of using continuous wave ultrasound for three-dimensional cross-sectional imaging. The results of preliminary tissue investigation, conducted using bovine coccygeal intervertebral discs, are described. The radial imaging resolution improves as the Doppler frequency resolution improves but the circumferential resolution degrades proportionally. As the number of projections increases, there is a finite increase in image quality. Two- and three-dimensional images of the intervertebral disc reveal an alternate light and dark banding pattern that is characteristic of the laminar structure of the annulus fibrosus.
12585282	Islamic medical ethics with special reference to Moalejat-e-Buqratiya.	The writer physicians of Islamic medicine have given top priority to the Islamic Medical Ethics in their valuable writings and left the ineffaceable footsteps in the field. Such as, Abul Hasan Ahmed bin Mohammad At-Tabari has devoted the 35th chapter of Maqala l of his precious book entitled 'Moalejat-e-Buqratiya' to medical ethics. The entire chapter reflects the Islamic approach of the scholar. In the following pages, an attempt has been made to highlight some salient features of Islamic Medical Ethics in ancient literature of Islamic Medical with special reference to Moalejat-e-Buqratiya.
12587685	Urinary concentrations of morphine and codeine after consumption of poppy seeds.	A quantitative analysis of morphine and codeine in human urine was performed after oral intake of cakes containing commercially available poppy seeds in order to estimate the possibility of positive doping results. Therefore, eight products from different manufacturers (poppy seeds or baking mixtures) and origin were obtained and analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for the presence of the alkaloids. One selected batch of poppy seeds was used as an ingredient in a typical cake and was the object of an excretion study with nine volunteers. After application, several urine specimens contained morphine with concentrations higher than 1 microg/mL, and peak values of approximately 10.0 microg/mL were detected. Because the International Olympic Committee set a cutoff limit for morphine at 1 microg/mL, high-performance athletes could possibly test positive in doping control after consumption of products containing poppy seeds.
12589581	[Long-term follow-up of right atrial multilinear high-frequency ablation in the treatment of recurrent paroxysmal atrial fibrillation]	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To investigate the long-term follow-up after right atrial compartmentalization using radiofrequency catheter ablation to treat recurrent paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. PATIENTS AND METHODS: 33 patients (eight women / 25 men, mean age 56.1+/-9.9 years) with highly symptomatic recurrent paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and mostly unresponsive to antiarrhythmic drugs were enrolled in this prospective study. All patients underwent radiofrequency catheter ablation, including right atrial compartmentalization and ablation of the right atrial isthmus region. The primary goal during follow-up was documentation of arrhythmia-related symptoms using a SF-36 quality-of-life questionnaire. RESULTS: During a mean follow-up of 2.1 years 21 % of patients were free of a relapse under continued antiarrhythmic medication, 79 % suffered at least from one period of atrial fibrillation. According to the underlying heart disease patients classified as &quot;lone atrial fibrillation&quot; (40 % without a relapse) showed improvement particularly compared to patients with coronary heart disease (10 % without a relapse). In the group of patients with a relapse of atrial fibrillation the mean of duration of an arrhythmic episode decreased significantly from 10.6 to 2.3 hours under continued administration of antiarrhythmic drugs (p = 0.01), as did the number of episodes, from 2.2 to 1.9/week. CONCLUSION: Despite of the high rate of clinical relapse, patients can profit due to an improved responsiveness to antiarrhythmic drugs after ablation. Right atrial compartmentalization should not be understood as a causal therapy but as an approach to a symptomatic form of hybrid therapy.
12589772	May nitric oxide molecule have a role in the pathogenesis of human cataract?	Recent studies have shown that nitric oxide molecule may have a role in the development of cataract. In this study, we measured the levels of a nitric oxide metabolite (nitrite) in the cataractous and normal human lenses. A modified Griess assay was used to determine the nitrite levels in the lenses as a measure of nitric oxide, based on the spectrophotometric method. Nitrite was detected in 26 (44.1%) cataractous lenses and was found below the detection limit in 33 (55.9%) cataractous lenses. Mean nitrite levels in cataractous lenses (2.77+/-5.26nmol/100mg) was found higher than the normal lenses (0.77+/-0.79nmol/100mg) but this increase was not statistically significant. Comparison of nitrite levels among lenses with various types of cataracts revealed higher levels in lenses with posterior subcapsular cataracts. Hypertensive patients had also significantly higher nitrite levels in their cataractous lenses. The increased levels in the cataractous lenses display a possible role of nitric oxide in the pathogenesis of cataract in human eyes.
12600651	Nucleoside analogues and neuropathy in the era of HAART.	BACKGROUND: Sensory neuropathies occur commonly in the setting of HIV infection. Sensory neuropathy (SN) is clearly associated with HIV itself, and in this context develops in association with increased macrophage activation in the peripheral nervous system. A clinically identical SN may also occur as a consequence of exposure to some HIV treatments. In this setting, impaired mitochondrial function is thought to play a role in the development of neurological dysfunction. OBJECTIVE: This review explores the evidence for the neurotoxicity of HIV and HIV treatments, the effect of nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors on mitochondria, and the likely associations between these. CONCLUSIONS: Dideoxynucleotide drugs are commonly associated with SN. The nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors inhibit mitochondrial DNA synthesis and may thus exacerbate existing viral-induced nerve damage.
12605967	Long-term efficacy, curative potential, and prognostic factors of radiotherapy in primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma.	PURPOSE: Primary cutaneous B-cell lymphomas (PCBCL) are rare and constitute approximately 5-10% of all cutaneous lymphomas. In the literature, conflicting data exist on the optimal treatment modality regarding the efficacy and the relapse rate after radiotherapy (RT) or polychemotherapy. To evaluate the efficacy of RT, patient data from two centers were analyzed and compared with recent reports in the literature. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between April 1984 and June 2001, 35 patients with PCBCL, 17 men and 18 women ages 27-86 years, were treated with RT alone (29/35 patients) or postoperative RT (6/35 patients). According to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer classification for PCBCL, this study group included 21 patients (60%) with primary cutaneous follicle center-cell lymphoma, 7 (20%) with primary cutaneous immunocytoma, 4 (11%) with primary cutaneous large B-cell lymphoma (PCLBCL) of the leg, and 3 (9%) provisional types. RESULTS: A total of 34/35 patients achieved an initial complete response after RT. In one additional patient, RT was interrupted after 16 Gy because of fulminant pneumonia. A total of 11/35 (31%) patients developed cutaneous relapse after a median of 11 months. Three patients developed an in-field response and 8 patients an out-field relapse. After a median follow-up of 52 months, 27/35 patients are alive, whereas 8/35 patients died (three deaths resulting from PCBCL and five unrelated to PCBCL). The 5-year overall survival rate was 75% (95% CI: 55-95%). The 5-year relapse-free survival was 50% (95% CI: 32-68%). Univariate and multivariate analysis revealed disseminated primary lesions in at least two noncontiguous anatomic sites and the histologic subtype PCLBCL as unfavorable prognostic factors. CONCLUSIONS: RT of all visible skin lesions is an effective treatment for localized PCBCL. In patients with cutaneous relapses, RT is an effective treatment option as well.
12610807	Cardiovascular risk factor screening in systemic lupus erythematosus.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the frequency of cardiovascular (CV) disease risk factor screening in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). METHODS: Medical records of patients from a lupus clinic and 5 private practices were assessed for CV disease risk factors, including hyperlipidemia, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking, family history of CV disease, antiphospholipid antibodies, hyperhomocysteinemia, postmenopausal status, obesity, and nephrotic syndrome. RESULTS: A total of 183 records were included: 60 (33%) from the lupus clinic and 123 (67%) from private practices. Serum lipid profiles were measured in 56/183 (31%): 37/60 (62%) in the lupus clinic vs 19/123 (15%) private practice. Of the 56 with lipids measured, the individual tests obtained were as follows: total cholesterol in 56 (100%), HDL in 50 (89%), triglycerides in 49 (88%), LDL in 48 (86%), and VLDL in 33 (59%). Thirty-one of 56 patients (55%) had elevated lipids. Only 9/25 (36%) with hyperlipidemia who had a subsequent visit had a response to the hyperlipidemia charted. Of 9 nonlipid risk factors, a median of 8 were assessed in the lupus clinic vs 3 in private practices. The most frequent risk factors screened were nephrotic syndrome (91%), hypertension (74%), and smoking (59%). CONCLUSION: Despite an inordinately high risk of CV disease in SLE, assessment of CV risk factors was surprisingly uncommon among the practices assessed. Greater attention needs to be paid to CV disease risk factor screening in patients with lupus.
12614177	Initial clinical results of stereotactic radiotherapy for the treatment of craniopharyngiomas.	The efficacy and toxicity of stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT) for the treatment of craniopharyngioma has been retrospectively evaluated in 16 patients. The median tumor diameter was 2.8 cm (range 1.5-6.1) and the median tumor volume was 7.7 cc (range 0.7-62.8). SRT was delivered to a single isocenter using a dedicated 6 MV linear accelerator to patients immobilized with a relocatable stereotactic head frame. The three-year actuarial overall survival was 93% and the rate of survival free of any imaging evidence of progressive disease was 75%. The three-year actuarial survival rates free of solid tumor growth or cyst enlargement were 94% and 81% respectively. Our results suggest that SRT is a safe and effective treatment approach for patients with craniopharyngioma. Long-term follow-up is required to determine whether the normal tissue-sparing inherent with SRT results in reduction of the neurocognitive effects of conventional radiotherapy for craniopharyngioma. SRT can be delivered to craniopharyngioma that may be difficult to treat with stereotactic radiosurgery due to proximity of the optic chiasm. Further clinical experience is necessary to determine the clinical utility of beam shaping in the setting of SRT.
12615430	Immunity to avian pneumovirus infection in turkeys following in ovo vaccination with an attenuated vaccine.	Fertile turkey eggs after 24 days of incubation were vaccinated in ovo with a commercial live attenuated subtype A avian pneumovirus (APV) vaccine. Hatchability was not adversely affected. When a high dose (10 times maximum commercial dose) of vaccine was tested in maternal antibody negative (MA-) eggs, mild clinical signs developed in a small proportion of the poults for 1-4 days only. Post-vaccination antibody titres at 3 weeks of age were significantly higher than those seen when the same dose was administered by eyedrop or spray at day-old. A low dose (end of shelf-life titre) of vaccine given to MA- eggs did not cause disease and vaccinated poults were 100% protected against virulent APV challenge at 3 or 5 weeks of age. Post-vaccination antibody titres reached significant levels at 3 weeks of age, whereas those from MA- poults vaccinated by spray at day-old with a similar low dose did not. In a 'worst-case' scenario, maternal antibody positive (MA+) poults vaccinated in ovo with the low dose were still 77% protected against clinical disease, despite lack of seroconversion. The recommended commercial dose of vaccine given to MA- eggs in ovo induced 100% protection against virulent APV challenge for up to 14 weeks of age, even though post-vaccination antibody titres had dropped to insignificant levels at this age. In ovo vaccination with a mixture of the recommended commercial doses of live APV and Newcastle disease (ND) vaccines had no detrimental affect on the efficacy of the APV vaccine. This is the first report of the successful use of an APV vaccine being given in ovo. The results indicate that for turkeys, in ovo vaccination with a live attenuated APV vaccine is safe and effective against virulent challenge and comparable with vaccination by conventional methods.
12615819	Poor response to ovulation induction is a stronger predictor of early menopause than elevated basal FSH: a life table analysis.	BACKGROUND: During the course of assisted reproduction treatment, a number of women exhibit a &quot;poor response&quot; to ovulation induction, or demonstrate an elevated basal FSH level (> or =10 IU/l) at a young age. We sought to determine whether these women are at increased risk of early menopause and poor reproductive performance. METHODS: A retrospective cohort study included 118 &quot;poor responders&quot; with normal basal FSH level (&lt;10 IU/l), 164 women with raised basal FSH (> or =10 IU/l), and 265 controls, who underwent assisted reproduction treatment between 1987 and 1998. All women were &lt; 40 years of age at the time of treatment and had normal menstrual cycles. Participants were sent a postal questionnaire in 2000-2001, seeking information on ovarian function and reproductive performance following cessation of treatment. RESULTS: After adjusting for age and smoking habits, women with poor response and raised basal FSH levels were more likely to experience symptoms of the peri-menopause [hazard ratios 2.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.52-3.78, and 2.76, 95% CI 1.78-4.29 respectively, P = 0.0001]. Poor responders were six times and 23 times more likely to experience the menopause within 10 years of treatment than those with raised basal FSH levels and controls respectively (hazard ratio 5.97 and 23.9, P = 0.015 and 0.002 respectively). Poor responders and those with raised basal FSH levels have half the chance of spontaneous conception after discontinuation of treatment compared with controls (P &lt; 0.007). CONCLUSIONS: Both poor response to ovarian stimulation and raised basal FSH are markers of reduced ovarian reserve and predict an increased risk of early menopause.
12619088	Remyelination by transplanted olfactory ensheathing cells.	The olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) of the peripheral olfactory system associate with the axons of the first cranial nerve. These axons are not myelinated by OECs because of their very small diameter. However, when OECs are transplanted into areas where they encounter larger-diameter axons, such as in a model of primary demyelination, these cells assume a myelinating phenotype. Myelinating OECs very closely resemble myelinating Schwann cells by all criteria currently examined, including morphology, ultrastructure, biochemistry, and transcriptional regulation. Indeed, it is currently impossible to reliably distinguish myelinating OECs and myelinating Schwann cells that have been transplanted into experimental models of CNS demyelination. This article describes recent studies on the myelinating properties of transplanted OECs, focusing on their intrinsic myelinating potential and how this can be augmented by the presence of meningeal cells. The relative merits of OECs compared with Schwann cells when transplanted into astrocyte-containing lesions in the CNS are discussed together with their potential role in transplanted-mediated repair of demyelinating disease such as multiple sclerosis.
12619275	[Simulation of N2O emissions in agroecosystems]	A numerical model for simulating N2O emissions in agroecosystem was established. Validation of the model with the observed data showed that the model simulated the process of N2O emissions in fields fairly well. The numerical analysis showed that the N2O emissions were interrelated well with average temperature during rice growth periods. Analysis of N2O emissions and meteorological factors by using power spectrum found that the change of N2O emissions had 7-9 year cycles. Sensitivity test showed that the N2O emission increased with temperature enhancement.
12620954	Usefulness of intraoperative epiaortic echocardiography to resolve discrepancy between transthoracic and transesophageal measurements of aortic valve gradient - a case report.	PURPOSE: Intraoperative measurement of the aortic valve (AV) gradient in patients undergoing cardiac surgery is routinely performed using transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). In patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS), TEE Doppler beam alignment with the blood flow through the stenotic valve may be inaccurate, resulting in an underestimation of the AV gradient. We describe here the use of epiaortic echocardiography as an alternative to TEE for the intraoperative evaluation of AS. Clinical features: A patient diagnosed with severe AS (peak pressure gradient by transthoracic echocardiography: 108 mmHg) was undergoing AV replacement. In contrast, intraoperative TEE examination performed prior to bypass showed only a mild pressure gradient across the AV (peak pressure gradient: 38 mmHg). In order to resolve the conflicting information, epiaortic echocardiography was used to measure the AV gradient, confirming severe AS (peak pressure gradient: 98 mmHg). Most likely, Doppler beam alignment through the stenotic valve was more parallel to blood flow using epiaortic echocardiography, thus revealing the true pressure gradient. CONCLUSION: Intraoperative epiaortic measurement of AV gradients can be successfully performed in patients where TEE may be inaccurate due to difficulty in aligning a Doppler beam with the transvalvular blood flow.
12626206	A comparison of spiral computed tomography and latex agglutination D-dimer assay in acute pulmonary embolism using pulmonary arteriography as gold standard.	OBJECTIVE: To compare the diagnostic accuracy of contrast medium enhanced spiral computed tomography of the pulmonary arteries (s-CTPA) and a latex agglutination D-dimer assay in patients with suspected acute pulmonary embolism (PE) by using pulmonary arteriography (PA) and clinical follow-up as reference method. DESIGN: Ninety hemodynamically stable patients with symptoms of acute pulmonary embolism were prospectively evaluated with s-CTPA and pulmonary arteriography (PA) within 24 h from admission. Plasma D-dimer levels on admittance were analyzed using a rapid latex agglutination D-dimer assay. The outcome of D-dimer concentrations in plasma below 0.25 and 0.5 mg/l was studied. RESULTS: All PA and s-CTPA investigations were regarded as of acceptable diagnostic quality in a consensus reading. Thirty-three patients had a positive PA (37%). Three patients had false negative and two patients had false positive s-CTPA findings. s-CTPA had 91% sensitivity, 96% specificity, 94% positive predictive value (PPV) and 95% negative predictive value (NPV). The sensitivity and specificity for D-dimer below 0.5 mg/l were 79 and 88%, respectively. The PPV and NPV were 81 and 87%. If a cut-off level of 0.25 mg/l was used the corresponding figures were 91, 65, 63 and 92%. CONCLUSION: s-CTPA has a higher sensitivity and specificity than latex agglutination D-dimer. A cut-off level of 0.25 mg/l can be used as screening method, but s-CTPA must be performed to exclude false positive cases.
12627497	Imaging of the varicella zoster virion in the viral highways: comparison with herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2, cytomegalovirus, pseudorabies virus, and human herpes viruses 6 and 7.	Imaging by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) can provide insight into viral egress. At a low magnification level, varicella zoster virions (VZV) emerge from an infected cell surface in a distinctive pattern previously described as &quot;viral highways.&quot; Viral highways consist of thousands of particles arranged in linear pathways across the syncytial surface. This egress pattern has not been described with other herpesviruses, but a systematic analysis has not been performed. Therefore, the characteristic arrangement of VZV egress was compared with that of six other members of the herpes virus family, including herpes simplex virus (HSV) types 1 and 2, human cytomegalovirus (CMV), pseudorabies virus (PRV), and human herpesvirus types 6 and 7 (HHV-6 and HHV-7). Only VZV-infected cells exhibited viral highways. Subsequent SEM examination of VZ virions at an ultra high-resolution revealed that more than 70% were aberrant. Further imaging of the other herpesviruses demonstrated that VZV structure was more closely related to PRV than HSV-1 or HSV-2. Finally, it is noted that the individual members of the herpesvirus family have distinguishable SEM profiles.
12629195	Representation of odor habituation and timing in the hippocampus.	We performed simultaneous single-neuron recordings from the hippocampus and the olfactory bulb of anesthetized, freely breathing rats. Odor response properties of neurons in the olfactory bulb and hippocampus were characterized as firing rate changes or respiration-coupled changes. A panel of five odors was used. The rats had not been exposed to the odors on the panel before the experiment. The olfactory bulb and hippocampal neurons responded to repeated odor presentations in two ways: first, by changes in firing rate, and second, by respiratory tuning changes. Approximately 60% of bulbar neurons, 48% of hippocampal CA1 neurons, and 12% of hippocampal CA3 neurons showed statistically significant responses. None of the odor-responsive neurons in either the bulb or hippocampus responded to all of the odors on the panel. Repeated 10 sec odor stimuli presented at the intervals of 20, 30, 60, 110, and 160 sec were used to analyze the effect of the interval on odor response properties of the recorded neurons. Bulbar neurons were relatively nonselective for odor interval. Hippocampal neurons showed unexpected selectivity for the interval between repeated odor presentations. CA1 and CA3 neurons responded to only one to three of the intervals in the range. On the basis of these findings, we postulate that the hippocampus has the ability to keep track of the time elapsed between consecutive odor stimuli. This may act as a neuronal substrate for habituation and for complex tasks such as odor-guided navigation.
12629631	Laryngotracheal involvement of relapsing polychondritis in a Korean girl.	We describe a young girl presenting with acute dyspnea because of laryngotracheal involvement of relapsing polychondritis (RP). RP, a multisystemic disorder of unknown etiology, is a very rare disease in children. It is characterized by inflammation and destruction of the cartilaginous structure of many organs, including the respiratory tract. Early respiratory tract involvement in younger patients is the greatest threat to life, and aggressive therapy, including tracheostomy and intravenous high-dose steroids, is advocated.
12632116	Growing skull fracture of the posterior cranial fossa and of the orbital roof.	BACKGROUND: Growing Skull Fractures (GSF) are rare complications of head trauma, primarily reported in infancy and early childhood. GSF are commonly located on calvaria, and rarely in other locations, including the skull base. METHOD: In this study, we report two cases of GSF occurring in unusual locations. The first, a 8-month old girl, with a GSF of the suboccipital posterior fossa region, and the second, a 4-year old boy with a GSF of the right orbital roof. Both cases underwent operative treatment of the GSF, with microsurgical dissection and excision of the protruding gliotic brain tissue, watertight duraplasty and autologous bone cranial repair. The authors conducted a Medline search of the relevant English literature from 1966 to 2002. FINDINGS: From the search, three cases of suboccipital posterior fossa region GSF and twelve series of orbital GSF, describing a total of 22 cases, have been found. INTERPRETATION: A survey of the pathogenic mechanisms underlying this entity in these locations is reported. A review of suboccipital posterior fossa and orbital roof GSF cases, of nosological, ophthalmological and neurological data, neuroradiological and operative findings, and results of different treatment strategies are described.
12634036	An analysis of Simpson's notebook data on the wet nurse.	OBJECTIVE: to understand the meaning of the qualitative data included in the Notebook of wet nurses kept by James Young Simpson. DESIGN: quantitative and qualitative analysis of data in an historical document. SETTING: a list of wet nurses kept by a 'Professor of Midwifery' in mid-19th century Edinburgh. PARTICIPANTS: the Notebook lists the names and other details of 749 women. FINDINGS: the Notebook indicates how the wet nurse was recruited, the implications for her baby, how she negotiated her role and the decision-making around her recruitment. KEY CONCLUSIONS: the ambiguity of this medical pioneer's decision-making is demonstrated. Simpson's scientific credentials may have featured much rhetoric. While in the forefront of many obstetric and medical developments, Simpson was regressive in his support for wet nursing. The social input into the selection of the wet nurse has not been identified previously. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: the woman's ability to negotiate her terms of employment emerges. The social determinants of baby feeding decisions, identified in this document, have assumed greater significance since the time that this Notebook was written.
12640929	Learning from carers' experiences: helping older people with dementia to eat and drink.	Eating and drinking difficulties are common in people with dementia and yet some health staff are inclined to neglect this important area of care. This article explores how, combined with the skills of nurses, the experiences of those caring for relatives with dementia can help potential problems to be avoided.
12645383	[Common biostatistical errors in clinical studies]	Roughly half to two third of all published biomedical studies that use statistical methods contain unacceptable errors. The present article points at common errors that may be avoided without requiring profound statistical knowledge. These errors mainly concern the minimal number of patients and sample size (statistical power), agreement between aim and conclusion, distribution of data as well as description of location and variability of data. An analysis of 150 papers in the New England Journal of Medicine and in Circulation demonstrates that these errors can also commonly be found in respected journals after statistical peer review. Editors of biomedical journals could reduce the problem by means of statistical guidelines.
12653346	Effect of hollow fiber length on solute removal and quantification of internal filtration rate by Doppler ultrasound.	Renal replacement therapy with dialyzers capable of enhanced internal filtration (IF) can be an alternative to standard hemodiafiltration, as it provides convective solute removal comparable to that of hemodiafiltration by a simple procedure. In this study, we clinically evaluated the effect of the hollow fiber length in the dialyzer, a crucial factor influencing the rate of IF, by comparing two commercial dialyzers (BS-1.6U, BS-1.6UL, Toray, Japan) which differed in the fiber length, but had the same surface area and inner diameter of their hollow fibers. We showed that in the dialyzer with the longer fibers, the pressure profile along the dialyzer was significantly altered, and the solute clearance tended to be increased. In addition, we successfully quantified the IF rate with a Doppler ultrasound in the experimental circuit, by measuring the blood flow velocities along the bundle of fibers. We showed that the changes in the blood flow velocity were more marked in the dialyzer with the longer fibers; the calculated IF rates in the dialyzers with the shorter and longer fibers were 11.1 mL/min and 37.7 mL/min, respectively, which seemed to be compatible with the solute clearances. This simple and readily applicable method is expected to be useful in the development of modified dialyzers to fully exploit the benefits of IF in renal replacement therapy.
12653674	Contrasting neurovascular findings in chronic orthostatic intolerance and neurocardiogenic syncope.	Simple faint (neurocardiogenic syncope) and postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) characterize acute and chronic orthostatic intolerance respectively. We explored the hypothesis that vascular function is similar in the two conditions. We studied 29 patients with POTS and compared them with 20 patients with neurocardiogenic syncope who were otherwise well, and with 15 healthy control subjects. We measured continuous heart rate, respiration and blood pressure, and used venous occlusion strain gauge plethysmography to measure calf and forearm blood flow, peripheral arterial resistance, peripheral venous resistance and venous pressure ( P (v)). Upright tilt was performed to 70 degrees for 10 min, during which calf blood flow and volume were measured. Calf P (v) was increased (to 27.2+/-2.0 mmHg) in a subgroup of POTS patients, who also had increased arterial resistance (57+/-6 mmHg.ml(-1).min(-1).100 ml(-1) tissue), increased venous resistance (2.4+/-0.3 mmHg.ml(-1).min(-1).100 ml(-1) tissue), and decreased peripheral flow (1.0+/-0.2 ml.min(-1).100 ml(-1) tissue) in the calf; other POTS patients with a normal P (v) had decreased arterial resistance (18+/-2 mmHg.ml(-1).min(-1).100 ml(-1) tissue) and increased blood flow (3.8+/-0.3 ml.min(-1).100 ml(-1) tissue). Syncope patients were not different from controls ( P (v)=11.4+/-0.5 mmHg; calf flow=3.1+/-0.2 ml.min(-1).100 ml(-1) tissue; arterial resistance=27+/-2 mmHg.ml(-1).min(-1).100 ml(-1) tissue; venous resistance=1.2+/-0.3 mmHg.ml(-1).min(-1).100 ml(-1) tissue). When upright, syncope patients and control subjects had similar increases in heart rate and calf volume, stable blood pressure, and decreases in blood flow. POTS patients had markedly increased heart rate and calf blood flow, unstable blood pressure, and pooling in the lower extremities, regardless of subgroup. We conclude that peripheral vascular physiology in patients with POTS is abnormal, in contrast with normal peripheral vascular physiology in neurocardiogenic syncope.
12656200	A mixed bag: the realities of psychoanalytic practice.	For a variety of reasons, psychoanalytic training is done in somewhat of a vacuum. It teaches a theory and a way of practicing that does not always translate well to day-to-day private practice work. The clinical realities of psychoanalytic practice prove the psychoanalytic method to be one that provides help to a wider audience than classical psychoanalytic training programs might suggest. The psychoanalytic approach offers the analyst many special opportunities to work with and help a wide variety of patients. Analysts who accept both the limitations as well as the wide application and broad benefits of the psychoanalytic approach may have a more fulfilling experience than their training experiences might foster. At the same time, the analyst's level of therapeutic skill, the patient's diagnosis, and many multiple external factors create different limitations in the practice and outcome of psychoanalytic work. Extensive case material is used to show the broad range of patients who are helped by the psychoanalytic method. The clinical material also shows the less than perfect, but often good enough outcomes of these difficult cases with often severely disturbed patients.
12656475	Excited singlet state and photoionization of 8-methoxypsoralen. Picosecond transient absorption study.	Time-resolved pico- and nanosecond transient absorption measurements of 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) were performed in different solvents at room temperature. The excited singlet state has two strong absorption bands with maxima at 430 and 630-690 nm. The lifetime of the first excited singlet state, tau(s), ranges from &lt;10 ps up to 2.7 ns, being shorter in low-polar solvents (toluene, THF) and longer in highly polar water, TFE and HFIP. The rate of the singlet depopulation decreases exponentially with increasing solvent polarity as expressed by the Dimroth-Reichardt (ET(N)) or Gutmann solvent acceptor number (AN). In aqueous ethanol solution (H2O: EtOH 10:1), addition of the synthetic nucleobase 2-aminopurine slightly decreased the lifetime tau(s). The long-time (t > 5 ns) absorption spectrum remaining after the complete decay of the S1 state is due to the hydrated electron e(aq) and the radical cation 8-MOPF.+. Ionization is due to both, one and two-quantum excitation. In the intensity range I = 10(6)-10(9) W cm(-2) the quantum yield of electron ejection (ionization) phi(i) does not depend on the intensity of radiation, therefore the ionization is monophotonic, phi(i) = 0.03. At intensities 1> 5 x 10(9) W cm(-2) phi1 becomes larger due to two-quantum excitation followed by ionization.
12657017	Benign neonatal hemangiomatosis.	An infant with benign neonatal hemangiomatosis is described. Examination for internal hemangiomas was negative. The patient had complete resolution of the lesions by 2 years of age.
12657347	Perceived physical demands and reported musculoskeletal problems in registered nurses.	BACKGROUND: Nursing is physically demanding, and nurses have higher rates of musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) than most other occupational groups. The physical demands of nursing may lead some nurses to leave the profession, contributing to the shortage of registered nurses in many workplaces that is a major concern today. As a first step toward reducing MSDs and their consequences, this study was designed to examine the relationship between perceived physical demands and reported neck, shoulder, and back MSDs in nurses. METHODS: Data were collected anonymously from 1163 randomly selected working nurses (74% response rate) using a cross-sectional survey. The 12-item survey scale (internal reliability coefficient=0.89), rated perceived physical demands such as force, awkward postures, and heavy lifting. Nurses with a presumed MSD case reported relevant past-year symptoms in the neck, shoulder, and/or back lasting >or=1 weeks, or at least monthly, with moderate or more pain, on average. RESULTS: Moderate and high perceived physical demands were significantly associated with reported neck, shoulder, and back MSD cases, even after adjustments for demographic and lifestyle-related covariates. Adjusted odds ratios for highly demanding work (vs low) ranged from 4.98 to 6.13 depending on body site. When analyses were restricted to staff nurses only, the odds ranged from 9.05 to 11.99. CONCLUSIONS: Perceived physical demands are associated with reported MSD in registered nurses, and the association is stronger in staff nurses.
12664491	[Cataract progression in patients with atopic dermatitis]	Atopic dermatitis is a relatively common hereditary condition. Ocular sequellae are commonly seen in this disorder, and may include involvement of both the anterior and posterior segments of the eye. The case of female patient with atopic dermatitis and ocular manifestations is presented.
12665410	New approaches to developing antidepressants by enhancing monoaminergic neurotransmission.	Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a serious illness with far reaching societal and economic ramifications. The monoamine-deficiency hypothesis that depressive symptoms are associated with reductions in monoamine neurotransmission, particularly serotonin and noradrenaline, is supported by both neurochemical findings and the successful treatment of MDD with compounds that enhance monoaminergic neurotransmission. This review focuses on novel compounds in different stages of development for the treatment of MDD that enhance monoaminergic neurotransmission via a number of different mechanisms, including re-uptake inhibition of one or more monoamines, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, the combination of monoamine antagonists with re-uptake inhibitors and monoamine receptor subtype agonists. Compounds that enhance individual monoamines have antidepressant properties and compounds that enhance multiple monoamines appear to have a synergistic antidepressant effect and potentially faster onset of action. The differing mechanisms of action possessed by these novel monoamine-enhancing compounds will offer greater treatment flexibility in the therapeutic management of MDD.
12673559	Undifferentiated (embryonal) sarcoma of the liver in middle-aged adults: smooth muscle differentiation determined by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy.	Undifferentiated (embryonal) sarcoma of the liver (UESL) is a rare pediatric liver malignancy that is extremely uncommon in middle-aged individuals. We studied 2 cases of UESL in middle-aged adults (1 case in a 49-year-old woman and the other in a 62-year-old man) by histology, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy to clarify the cellular characteristics of this peculiar tumor. One tumor showed a mixture of spindle cells, polygonal cells, and multinucleated giant cells within a myxoid matrix and also revealed focal areas of a storiform pattern in a metastatic lesion. The other tumor was composed mainly of anaplastic large cells admixed with few fibrous or spindle-shaped components and many multinucleated giant cells. In both cases, some tumor cells contained eosinophilic hyaline globules that were diastase resistant and periodic acid-Schiff positive. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells showed positive staining for smooth muscle markers, such as desmin, alpha-smooth muscle actin, and muscle-specific actin, and also for histiocytic markers, such as alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-1-antichymotrypsin, and CD68. Electron microscope examination revealed thin myofilaments with focal densities and intermediate filaments in the cytoplasm of tumor cells. Our studies suggest that UESL exhibits at least a partial smooth muscle phenotype in middle-aged adults, and this specific differentiation may be more common in this age group than in children. Tumor cells of UESL with smooth muscle differentiation in middle-aged adults show phenotypic diversity comparable to those of malignant fibrous histiocytoma with myofibroblastic differentiation.
12675115	Changes in psychosocial conditions and eventual mortality in community-residing elderly people.	We evaluated the association between changes in psychosocial conditions (assessed In 1992 and 1998) and subsequent mortality through 2001 among 741 Japanese elderly people living in a city located on Osaka in 1992. After adjustment for potential predictors of mortality, the relative risk of mortality, compared with subjects who continued to participate in social activities, was 1.44 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.47-4.40), 4.03 (95% CI: 2.11-7.67), and 2.31 (95% CI: 1.28-4.17) for those who started, discontinued, and did not participate at any time, respectively. The multivariate-adjusted relative risk of mortality, compared with those who did not find human relationships difficult in either survey, was 0.88 (95% CI: 0.26-3.05) for those who did not find such relationships difficult in the second survey, 1.73 (95% CI: 1.03-2.88) for those who occasionally found them difficult, and 6.62 (95% CI: 2.43-18.03) for those who continuously did so. The multivariate-adjusted relative risk of mortality, relative to those who consistently considered life worth living (Ikigai), was 0.72 (95% CI: 0.28-1.87), 2.22 (95% CI: 1.44-3.42), and 1.46 (95% CI: 0.65-3.31) for those who found, lost, and did not find life worth living in either survey, respectively. Deterioration in psychosocial conditions as well as continuously poor psychosocial conditions may be an important determinant of mortality risk for elderly people.
12679765	Left atrial thrombus predicts transient ischemic attack in patients with atrial fibrillation.	BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is widely accepted as a direct cause of cardioembolic stroke from left atrial (LA) thrombus formation. However, the relationship between LA thrombus and transient ischemic attack (TIA) in patients with AF is less well established. METHODS: Two hundred sixty-one adult patients (mean age 66 +/- 11 years, 220 men and 41 women) with AF undergoing transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) were prospectively followed up for TIA (mean duration 30.3 +/- 20.6 months). RESULTS: LA thrombus was present in 18% (n = 46) and LA spontaneous echocardiographic contrast in 50% (n = 131) of the group. Nineteen of 261 patients had TIA during follow-up. Multivariate logistic regression showed congestive heart failure (CHF) as the only predictor of TIA when a model of clinical variables was constructed (odds ratio [OR] 2.7, P =.04). Age, sex, hypertension, and use of warfarin or aspirin were not predictors. When TEE variables were added to the model, LA thrombus became the only predictor of TIA (OR 7.7, P =.0001). Survival free of TIA (Kaplan-Meier) was significantly less (P =.0001) in patients with LA thrombus compared with those without, and the annual TIA event rate was 9.2% per year versus 1.9% per year (P &lt;.0001), respectively. CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first prospective study documenting an association between LA thrombus and TIA in patients with AF. Other TEE variables, including aortic atheromata, and clinical parameters were not independently predictive. These data support a likely thromboembolic mechanism for TIA from LA thrombus in patients with AF.
12684194	Traits of persons who drink decaffeinated coffee.	PURPOSE: Little is known about the traits of decaffeinated coffee drinkers, who are sometimes used to ascertain whether the health effects of coffee intake are due to caffeine or some other coffee ingredient. METHODS: We studied these traits in 12,467 persons who reported type of coffee consumed at health examinations; 36% drank caffeinated only, 13% drank decaffeinated only, 27% drank both types and 24% drank no coffee. RESULTS: Odds ratios estimated from logistic regression analyses revealed that compared with regular (caffeinated) coffee drinkers or abstainers, decaffeinated coffee drinkers were less likely to be heavy coffee drinkers, smokers, alcohol drinkers, users of caffeinated soft drinks and medication and to be free of illness. Increased decaffeinated coffee drinking was associated with older age, female sex, African American ethnicity, use of special diets and cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, or neuropsychiatric symptoms. Persons on special diets were more likely to drink decaffeinated coffee whether they had heart disease or were free of any illness. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that decaffeinated coffee use is related to illness in some persons but to a healthy lifestyle in others. These potential and possibly conflicting confounding factors need to be considered when studying the health effects of coffee or caffeine.
12684997	[A case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia presenting long clinical course]	We describe a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia (ALS-D) displaying a long clinical course. A 68-year-old Japanese male with no family history of note was admitted complaining of severe dysarthria and dysphagia. At 63 years old, Pick's disease was diagnosed on the basis of abnormal behavior, such as &quot;Denkfaulheit&quot; and moria, and temporal lobe atrophy observed on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Five years after onset, dysarthria and dysphagia emerged, and gradually worsened. On admission, muscular weakness of the upper extremities, fasciculation, and exaggerated tendon stretch reflexes were noted. Needle electromyography performed on the left upper and lower extremities revealed neurogenic pattern changes. Based on these findings and clinical course, ALS-D was diagnosed. Due to severe bulbar palsy, verbal communication was impossible. However, neither specific symptoms of dementia nor abnormal behavior was demonstrated, although this latter had been observed 5 years ago, with only short-term memory impairment apparent. MRI disclosed severe knife-edge atrophy of bilateral temporal lobes, most prominently in the anterior regions. SPECT images revealed decreased uptake of tracer in bilateral inferior temporal lobes, predominantly on the left side. The patient died suddenly 4 months after admission, and post-mortem examination was not conducted. Total clinical course was about 8 years. Several cases of ALS-D have displayed similar clinical courses to the presented case. Some of these would also have initially been diagnosed as Pick's disease. We speculate that cases displaying psychiatric symptoms for several years and initially diagnosed as Pick's disease may finally be diagnosed as ALS-D upon the eventual emergence of motor symptoms(bulbar palsy).
12685491	Ischaemic heart disease in Turkish migrants with type 2 diabetes mellitus in The Netherlands: wait for the next generation?	OBJECTIVE: To study the prevalence of ischaemic heart disease in Turkish and Surinam-Asian migrants with type 2 diabetes mellitus in the Netherlands as compared with Europeans. METHODS: In a consecutive case-control study, 59 Turkish and 62 Surinam-Asian patients were compared with 185 Europeans referred to a diabetes clinic for treatment of type 2 diabetes in the period 1992 to 1998. Main outcome measures were ischaemic heart disease and its associated risk factors. RESULTS: The prevalence of ischaemic heart disease was lower (9%) in the Turks (p &lt; 0.02), but higher (29%) in the Surinam-Asians compared with the Europeans (23%). The Turks (52 +/- 10 years) and Surinam-Asians (46 +/- 12 years) were younger than the Europeans (64 +/- 11 years, p &lt; 0.001). Body mass index was 32 +/- 5 (p &lt; 0.001) in the Turks, 27 +/- 5 in the Surinam-Asians (p &lt; 0.05) and 29 +/- 5 in the Europeans. Turkish patients smoked less (23%, p &lt; 0.05) and used less alcohol (4%, p &lt; 0.05) than the Europeans. Proteinuria was found in 24% of the Turks (p &lt; 0.05), 37% of the Surinam-Asians (NS) and 46% of the Europeans. In univariate analysis ischaemic heart disease was related to Turkish origin, OR 0.34 (0.14-0.83) p &lt; 0.02, to Surinam-Asian origin, OR 1.84 (1.00-3.38) p = 0.05, and smoking, OR 1.78 (1.18-2.68) p &lt; 0.01. Other variables were not related to ischaemic heart disease. Multivariate analysis in a model with ethnicity and smoking showed significant relations between ischaemic heart disease and Turkish ethnicity, OR 0.19 (0.06-0.65) p = 0.007, Surinam-Asian origin, OR 2.77 (1.45-5.28) p = 0.002, and smoking, OR 1.79 (1.20-2.66) p = 0.004. CONCLUSION: Type 2 diabetes mellitus in different ethnic groups results in a significant difference in incidence of ischaemic heart disease. The most remarkable finding is a low incidence of ischaemic heart disease in the Turkish patients with type 2 diabetes, independent of smoking. The high prevalence of ischaemic heart disease in young migrant Asians with diabetes is confirmed.
12685845	EBV-associated nasal-type T/natural killer cell lymphoma presenting with polyserositis and rhabdomyolysis.	Nasal-type T/natural killer (NK)-cell lymphoma, a distinct clinicopathological entity is highly associated with Epstein-Barr virus which shows an aggressive course. We present a CD56+ nasal-type T/(NK)-cell lymphoma case with systemic manifestations of rhabdomyolysis and polyserositis who died of multiorgan failure shortly after his admission to hospital in spite of adequate chemotherapy and supportive care.
12688808	Mechanistic investigations on the reaction between amines or amides and an alkylperoxy-lambda3-iodane.	A mechanism involving the intermediate formation of an amine radical cation by single-electron transfer is proposed for the oxidation of secondary amines with alkylperoxy-lambda(3)-iodane. On the other hand, the oxidation of acetamides probably proceeds by a radical process, which involves the direct hydrogen abstraction of the methylene group alpha to the nitrogen atom.
12696732	Value of core needle biopsy in the diagnosis of soft tissue tumours.	We performed a prospective study to determine the accuracy of core needle biopsy in the diagnosis and grading of soft tissue tumours and to study the morbidity of core needle biopsy. Forty one cases of soft tissue tumours, 24 of them malignant and 17 benign, were biopsied with an 18G core needle. Core needle biopsy reports were compared with the final histopathological report after definitive procedure or incisional biopsy. 85.3% of core biopsies yielded adequate sample. Core needle biopsy had a sensitivity of 90%, specificity of 100%, positive predictive value of 100% and a negative predictive value of 88.23%. Overall accuracy for diagnosis of malignancy was 94.28%, 77.7% of tumours were correctly subtyped and none of them were histologically graded. There was no immediate complication of haemorrhage in any of the cases. Thus, we conclude that core needle biopsy is equivalent to incisional biopsy in diagnostic accuracy and being simple, less expensive and unlikely to compromise further management, can be used in place of open biopsy of soft tissue tumours.
12699296	Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis.	Therapeutic use of glucocorticoids can lead to many well-known adverse events. Of all potential serious side effects, glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP) is one of the most devastating complications of protracted glucocorticoid therapy in rheumatoid arthritis. GIOP is the most common form of drug-induced osteoporosis. Although much has been written about the association of glucocorticoids with bone disease among patients with chronic inflammatory conditions, many issues remain unsettled. This article focuses on areas of continued controversies, including the epidemiology and pathogenesis of GIOP, specification of a &quot;safe&quot; dose, methods for diagnosis of GIOP, and an evidence-based approach for GIOP prevention.
12700218	Care Need Index, a useful tool for the distribution of primary health care resources.	STUDY OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate how Care Need Index (CNI), a social deprivation index, may be used to allocate total primary health care resources. DESIGN: Cross sectional survey and register data. The CNI was based on sociodemographic factors: elderly persons living alone, children under age 5, unemployed people, people with low educational status, single parents, high mobility, and foreign born people. The CNI weights were calculated from the ratings of Swedish GPs of the impact of these factors on their workload. The CNI scale was transformed into a positive scale to avoid negative values. CNI weights were calculated for each decile of the study population. The risk of poor self reported health in the CNI deciles was estimated by means of a hierarchical logistic regression in the age range 25-74 (n=27 346). The MigMed database comprising all people living in Sweden was used to calculate the CNI for Stockholm. PARTICIPANTS: The Swedish population and the population in Stockholm County. MAIN RESULTS: The means of the CNI for deciles ranged from 61 (most affluent neighbourhoods) to 140 (most deprived) in Stockholm County. The ratio between the tenth and the first decile was 1.66. There was an approximately 150% increased risk of poor self reported health for people living in the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods (OR=2.50) compared with those living in the most affluent ones (OR=1). CNI ratios for the deciles corresponded approximately to the odds ratios of poor self reported health status. CONCLUSIONS: The CNI can be used to allocate total primary health care resources.
12705658	Learning developmental biology has priority in the life sciences curriculum in Singapore.	Singapore has embraced the life sciences as an important discipline to be emphasized in schools and universities. This is part of the nation's strategic move towards a knowledge-based economy, with the life sciences poised as a new engine for economic growth. In the life sciences, the area of developmental biology is of prime interest, since it is not just intriguing for students to know how a single cell can give rise to a complex, coordinated, functional life that is multicellular and multifaceted, but more importantly, there is much in developmental biology that can have biomedical implications. At different levels in the Singapore educational system, students are exposed to various aspects of developmental biology. The author has given many guest lectures to secondary (ages 12-16) and high school (ages 17-18) students to enthuse them about topics such as embryo cloning and stem cell biology. At the university level, some selected topics in developmental biology are part of a broader course which caters for students not majoring in the life sciences, so that they will learn to comprehend how development takes place and the significance of the knowledge and impacts of the technologies derived in the field. For students majoring in the life sciences, the subject is taught progressively in years two and three, so that students will gain specialist knowledge in developmental biology. As they learn, students are exposed to concepts, principles and mechanisms that underlie development. Different model organisms are studied to demonstrate the rapid advances in this field and to show the interconnectivity of developmental themes among living things. The course inevitably touches on life and death matters, and the social and ethical implications of recent technologies which enable scientists to manipulate life are discussed accordingly, either in class, in a discussion forum, or through essay writing.
12708582	Low-dose fluvoxamine treatment of children and adolescents with pervasive developmental disorders: a prospective, open-label study.	The objective of this study was to assess the efficacy and tolerability of low-dose fluvoxamine (1.5 mg/kg/day) in youngsters with pervasive developmental disorders (PDDs). This was a prospective, open-label trial that included 18 subjects with a mean age of 11.3 +/- 3.6 years. Fourteen children (78%) completed the 10-week study. Premature discontinuation due to behavioral activation occurred in three participants. Although there was no response for the group as a whole, eight subjects (including all four females) were considered at least partial responders in intent-to-treat analyses. Neither pubertal status nor serotonin levels predicted clinical response. Fluvoxamine can be beneficial in the treatment of select children and adolescents with PDDs. Gender differences in selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) response warrant further investigation.
12713898	Phototaxis, chemotaxis and the missing link.	Phototaxis in Archaea employs an integral membrane complex composed of a photoreceptor that is similar to the light-driven proton pump bacteriorhodopsin, and a transducer protein that is similar to the familiar eubacterial chemotaxis receptors. Recent structural studies have revealed how these proteins are assembled in the membrane, and provide a heuristic framework for future work on the mechanism of signal transduction by this important class of molecules.
12721699	Features of cell death in brain and liver, the target tissues of progressive neuronal degeneration of childhood with liver disease (Alpers-Huttenlocher disease).	Alpers-Huttenlocher disease (AHD) is a rare encephalopathy of infancy and childhood characterized by myoclonic seizures and progressive neurological deterioration, usually associated with signs and symptoms of liver dysfunction. There is no biological marker of the disease, and ultimate diagnosis still relies on pathological examination. Features of clinical progression and pathological findings suggest AHD to be secondary to a genetically determined disorder of mitochondrial function. We report on four AHD patients and focus on their pathological features in brain, liver and muscle. Liver and muscle biopsy specimens were examined using histochemical markers of the oxidative pathways, probes to immunodetect molecules of the apoptotic cascades and electron microscopy. In liver (but not in muscle) biopsy samples, activated caspases were detected by immunohistochemistry: foci of caspase-9-positive cells were seen in a child affected with chronic, progressive fibrosis. In an 18-year-old boy, who suffered from valproic acid-associated acute hepatitis, caspase-3 cells were clustered among the necrotic foci and the foamy cells. In both patients electron microscopy revealed apoptotic nuclei. Normal muscle biopsy specimens were observed in two children, 2 and 8 years-old respectively; in the 18-year-old patient cytochrome oxidase-negative fibers as well as ultrastructural findings of mitochondrial abnormalities were observed. In no patient was there biochemical evidence of impaired oxidative metabolism. Neuropathological examination of the brains of two patients (13 months and 19 years old, respectively) showed focal distribution of the lesions affecting the telencephalic cortex and, to a lesser extent, subcortical gray nuclei. Along with the necrotizing lesions, characterized by neuronal loss, neuropil microcysts and newly formed vessels, we also observed acutely shrunken neurons and features of apoptotic cell death in the cerebral cortex only. Severe neuronal loss without necrotizing features was observed in the cerebellar cortex. The presence of both anoxic and apoptotic nuclei in brain and liver, the target tissues of the disease, is consistent with the hypothesis that abnormal activation of mitochondrion-related cell death pathways might be involved in the pathogenesis of AHD.
12723172	[Blue-yellow full threshold automated perimetry in glaucoma diagnosis]	PURPOSE: To compare White &amp; White and Blue-Yellow Full Threshold automated perimetry. MATERIAL AND METHOD: Group of 37 patients; we used a Humphrey Zeiss automated perimeter. RESULTS: We obtained 49% abnormal white &amp; white visual fields and 62% abnormal blue yellow fields. CONCLUSIONS: Blue Yellow perimetry has higher sensibility than white &amp; white perimetry. We can detect earlier with this test the glaucoma defects.
12723291	[Cantilever resin-bonded bridges with one adhesive surface. A review of the literature]	Conventional resin-bonded bridges are designed with adhesive surfaces on both sides of the dummy. As a consequence both abutment teeth are rigidly connected to each other. Loading of the abutment teeth or dummy will lead to wringing forces in the cement. Adhesive bridges with one adhesive surface are actually cantilever bridges. Theoretically this type of bridges will be less prone to wringing forces due to loading. However, long term research into the performance of cantilever resin-bonded bridges (RBBs) is hardly available. The results of research into the longevity of conventional RBBs differ remarkably between Europe, and the United States and Japan. These difference are discussed in this article. This article compares the fixed-fixed design RBBs with the cantilever RBBs. The differences are discussed based on eight articles, the earliest being published in 1991, which are dedicated, completely or partially, to the subject of cantilever adhesive bridges. One can conclude that in The Netherlands RBBs are wrongly considered to be unreliable. On the contrary, they appear to be reliable and predictable restorations provided their preparations meet the right standards. Although a number of authors conclude that cantilever RBBs are performing better than their fixed-fixed design counterparts in similar situations, further research is needed concerning the longevity of this type of adhesive bridges.
12729877	Associative memory in chronic schizophrenia: a computational model.	We developed a computer model to simulate associative memory recall of patients with chronic schizophrenia. Model inputs consisted of words derived from normative data that differed in terms of connectivity and network size, with the former quantitatively represented by parametric weights and the latter by the specific number of word associates that formed a particular network. Previous behavioral studies of normal subjects indicated better recall for words of high connectivity-small network (HCSN), followed by low connectivity-small network (LCSN), high connectivity-large network (HCLN), and low connectivity-large network (LCLN). This pattern of recall differed from that observed in behavioral studies of schizophrenic patients, which showed better recall for high connectivity words, regardless of network size. Holding constant network size while manipulating connection weights effectively simulated this schizophrenic pattern of recall. That is, manipulation of parametric weights coupled with a slight increase in noise significantly and reliably elicited the response pattern of abnormal connectivity demonstrated in the prior behavioral study of patients with chronic schizophrenia. An increase in noise was a necessary, but insufficient step in modeling the response pattern of abnormal connectivity. These findings provide support for the use of computational models to investigate dynamics of associative word recall in patients with chronic schizophrenia.
12729945	Neonatal lesions in the amygdala or ventral hippocampus disrupt prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response; implications for an animal model of neurodevelopmental disorders like schizophrenia.	Prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response is a behavioural tool applied to assess sensorimotor gating processes in humans and rats. Schizophrenic patients show deficits in prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response. The animal model of neurodevelopmental disorders such as schizophrenia, as purported in earlier reports and the present study, is based on the assumption that damage to brain structures early in life (on day 7) disrupts brain maturation of structures connected to the damaged areas, measurable by behavioural changes, whereas similar damage later in life (on day 21) does not result in these behavioural changes. Locomotor activity, the acoustic startle response and its prepulse inhibition were investigated in adult rats lesioned in the amygdala or ventral hippocampus on day 7 or 21 of life. The acoustic startle response was increased in animals lesioned in the amygdala on day 7 or 21 of life, but not in animals lesioned in the ventral hippocampus. Prepulse inhibition was impaired and locomotor activity enhanced in animals lesioned in the amygdala or ventral hippocampus on day 7, but not in animals lesioned in these structures on day 21 of life. The results on the acoustic startle response are suggestive of amygdaloid influences on modulation of the acoustic startle response. The effects of early postnatal lesions on prepulse inhibition and locomotor activity are in support of the animal model of neurodevelopmental disorders like schizophrenia.
12731216	[Primary anastomosis in perforated Crohn disease]	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) comprises a group of diseases of intestine characterized by chronic inflammation of the bowel with periods of exacerbation and remission. The evolution of the disease needs, in some therapeutic moments, surgeon's intervention. We described the case of a patient hospitalized through emergency service of Military Hospital of Craiova which presented multiple ileo-cecal perforations, histological examination proving clinical supposition of Crohn's disease. The authors achieved, on the other hand, some considerations about etiopathogenical, clinical and therapeutic aspects of this disease.
12734220	Evaluation of the Etest and disk diffusion methods for determining susceptibilities of 235 bloodstream isolates of Candida glabrata to fluconazole and voriconazole.	The performances of the Etest and the disk diffusion methods for testing of the susceptibilities of 235 Candida glabrata isolates to fluconazole and voriconazole were compared with that of the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards (NCCLS) approved standard broth microdilution (BMD) method. The NCCLS method used RPMI 1640 broth medium, and MICs were read after incubation for 48 h at 35 degrees C. Etest MICs were determined with RPMI 1640 agar containing 2% glucose (RPG agar) and with Mueller-Hinton agar containing 2% glucose and 0.5 microg of methylene blue per ml (MBE agar) and were read after incubation for 48 h at 35 degrees C. Disk diffusion testing was performed with MBE agar, 25-microg fluconazole disks, and 1- microg voriconazole disks and by incubation at 35 degrees C for 24 h. Overall agreements between the Etest and the BMD MICs obtained with RPG and MBE agars were 91 and 96%, respectively, for fluconazole and 93 and 95%, respectively, for voriconazole. Categorical agreements between the agar-based methods and BMD were 52.3 to 64.7% with fluconazole and 94.8 to 97.4% with voriconazole. The vast majority of the discrepancies by the disk diffusion and Etest methods with fluconazole were minor errors. The agar-based methods performed well in identifying isolates with resistance to fluconazole and decreased susceptibility to voriconazole.
12739259	Performance in reading radiographs: does level of education predict skill?	INTRODUCTION: Previous studies demonstrated lack of progress in electrocardiographic analysis skills with increasing levels of medical education. This study examined radiograph analysis skills, a similar cognitive task, across a range of educational experience: senior medical students (n = 23), family practice residents (n = 16), general practitioners (n = 41), and their family practice educators (n = 7). METHODS: Written records of diagnosis or description of abnormalities were used to detect skill in interpreting radiographs. The instrument was 12 sets of radiographs: 2 normal and 6 abnormal chest radiographs and 2 normal and 2 greenstick radial fractures. RESULTS: The mean score for correctly diagnosing all 12 sets of radiographs was 5.59 +/- 1.68, and the mean score for correctly diagnosing the 4 normal radiographs as normal and the abnormal radiographs as abnormal was 8.76 +/- 1.55. There was no statistically significant difference between the four groups of participants. DISCUSSION: Skill level in interpreting radiographs did not appear to improve with additional experiential training and may require a more formal educational approach to address this issue.
12741353	[Influenza viruses and atherosclerosis: the role of atherosclerotic plaques in prolonging the persistent form of influenza infection]	It was established that viral particles, like low-density lipoproteins (LDLP), when subjected to some modification changes, lost their ability to be internalized by tissue somatic cells and acquired tropism to macrophage cells. The data, obtained by us by using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method, made it possible to assert that atherosclerotic plaques, isolated from vessels of patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD) who underwent coronary bypass, contained RNA of the A(HINI) and AH3N3) influenza viruses. Whereas, the vessel portions, undamaged by atherosclerosis, did not contain any genetic substances of influenza viruses. It was for the first time that an experimentally supported understanding was expressed on that the atherosclerotic plaques serve as a &quot;reservoir&quot; for influenza viruses. It is also suggested that the mentioned plaques can be the carriers of influenza viruses for a long time, thus, prolonging the persistent form of influenza infection in the human body.
12745811	Do unintended pregnancies carried to term lead to adverse outcomes for mother and child? An assessment in five developing countries.	This paper investigates whether children later reported as having been unwanted or mistimed at conception will, when compared with children reported as wanted, show adverse effects when the following criteria are applied: receipt of antenatal care before the sixth month of gestation, supervised delivery, full vaccination of the child, and child growth (stunting). The study uses data from five recent Demographic and Health Survey enquiries in Bolivia, Egypt, Kenya, Peru, and the Philippines. In Peru, children unwanted at conception were found to have significantly worse outcomes than other children, but in the other countries, a systematic effect was found only for receipt of antenatal care. Weak measurement of the complex concept of wantedness may have contributed to these results. Birth order of the child, with which wantedness is inextricably linked, has more powerful and pervasive effects, with first-born and second-born children being much less likely to show adverse effects.
12746722	[A retrospective study of 32 lumbar synovial cysts. Clinical aspect and surgical management]	We report a retrospective analysis of a series of 32 cases of lumbar synovial cysts. Clinically, two populations were identified: patients who presented radicular pain mimicking the clinical diagnosis of disk herniation (group I) and patients who presented neurogenic claudication consistent with a diagnosis of lumbar spinal stenosis (group II). The radiological work-up consisted in standard X-rays and CT-scan for all patients. MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) was performed in 14 patients. All the patients were operated on. The surgical technique consisted in foraminotomy for patients in group I and more or less extensive laminectomy for patients in group II. Functional outcome was marked by a significant improvement in 96.9% of the patients and those who presented a motor deficit recovered in 83% of the cases. Based on the findings in this series, we discuss the clinical aspects and the therapeutic management of this pathological entity.
12747508	Sequential modulations of stimulus-response correspondence effects depend on awareness of response conflict.	In two experiments, sequential modulations of prime-target correspondence effects were investigated in a metacontrast paradigm. Primes were either unmasked and thus consciously discriminable, or entirely masked and thus indiscriminable. Mirroring similar findings from Eriksen- and Simon-type tasks, the influence of prime-target correspondence was reduced in trials that followed a noncorresponding prime-target pair, which suggests that prime-induced response activation can be temporarily suppressed after an incompatible trial. This sequential modulation was independent of prime discriminability in the current trial, but it occurred only when the prime, and thus a conflict between the prime-induced and the deliberately to-be-selected response, was consciously experienced in the preceding trial. This suggests that the suppression of automatic response priming is not an immediate consequence of response conflict, but an intention-mediated strategy.
12747936	Apoptotic cell death of oestrogen activated lactotrophs induced by tamoxifen.	Stimulation and inhibition of lactotroph cells cause remarkable morphological and functional changes. In keeping with these changes, the size of the lactotroph cell population undergoes striking alterations due to proliferation or cell death. Factors involved in the induction of apoptosis of pituitary cells are not well established. We demonstrated earlier that oestrogens prevent lactotroph cells of female rats to die by apoptosis induced by bromocryptine treatment, a fact that can be reversed in ovariectomised rats. In this study, we developed experimental models for in vivo and in vitro studies to gain further insight on the survival effect of oestrogens on lactotrophs. In rats pretreated with oestrogens, tamoxifen generates a massive cell death by apoptosis as validated by the TUNEL technique and DNA electrophoresis of pituitary gland. On electron microscope observations, numerous lactotrophs exhibited progressive morphological changes in the nuclei compatible with the apoptotic process. The cells remaining intact also exhibit signs of inhibition due to a significant transformation of regular lactotrophs in atypical subtypes. In pituitary cell cultures exposed to tamoxifen and oestrogen simultaneously, most of the lactotrophs displayed features of apoptosis in the nucleus. The present reports gathered new evidences on the apoptogenic potential of tamoxifen on lactotroph cells, and corroborates the contribution of oestrogens to sustain both a balanced population of lactotrophs and a competent secretory activity. The concept that opposed activities, such as inhibition and stimulation, can activate apoptosis is also strengthen by these observations.
12749235	Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies in Brazilian patients with inflammatory bowel disease.	BACKGROUND/AIMS: Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody has been observed in the sera of patients with inflammatory bowel disease, but its prevalence depends on the population being studied and the method employed for its detection. METHODOLOGY: We evaluated the prevalence of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody by immunofluorescence assay in a series of Brazilian patients with inflammatory bowel disease: 40 patients with ulcerative colitis and 36 with Crohn's disease. We also correlated the presence of this antibody with duration of symptoms, site of the disease and inflammatory activity. Thirty healthy individuals comprised the control group. RESULTS: Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody was detected in 27.5% of the patients with ulcerative colitis, and in 14.3% of those with Crohn's colitis. Perinuclear staining pattern was the most common, but atypical and nuclear patterns were also observed. There was no correlation between the presence of this antibody and any of the studied clinical variables. No patient of the control group presented positive test. CONCLUSIONS: A positive anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody test would not be helpful in the differential diagnosis between ulcerative colitis and Crohn's colitis, since it has a moderate specificity of 86% for ulcerative colitis patients.
12750547	Familial intracranial aneurysms: an analysis of 346 multiplex Finnish families.	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Genetic risk factors are considered important in the development, growth, and rupture of intracranial aneurysms; however, few have been identified. We analyzed intracranial aneurysm families with at least 2 affected persons and determined relationships between affected persons and assessed the inheritance patterns of aneurysms. METHODS: Families with > or =2 members with verified diagnoses of intracranial aneurysms were recruited from Kuopio and Helsinki, Finland. Families with a diagnosis of other heritable disorders that have associated intracranial aneurysms, such as autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, were excluded. RESULTS: We identified 346 Finnish multiplex families with 160 (46.2%) male and 186 (53.8%) female index cases. There were a total of 937 aneurysm cases, with an average of 2.7 cases per family. The majority of the families had only 2 affected relatives (n=206; 59.5%), although there were families with up to 6 (n=10), 7 (n=1), 8 (n=1), or 10 (n=2) affected persons. The affected relatives of the index cases included 108 sisters, 116 brothers, 105 parents, 30 children, 15 grandparents, 102 aunts or uncles, and 64 cousins. Of the 937 affected persons, 569 (60.7%) were alive and available for genetic analysis. Inheritance patterns consistent with autosomal recessiveness were observed in 198 (57.2%), autosomal dominance in 126 (36.4%), and autosomal dominance with incomplete penetrance in 19 (5.5%) of the families. CONCLUSIONS: The collection is the most extensive published to date and extends previous observations of familial aggregation that are consistent with a major gene effect.
12750927	Treatment of chronic patellar dislocation with a modified Elmslie-Trillat procedure.	BACKGROUND: This paper describes a modification of the Elmslie-Trillat procedure that is usually performed in severe cases of habitual or recurrent patellar instability. METHODS: Eighteen knees (7 men and 8 women) treated for recurrent or habitual patellar dislocation were evaluated clinically and radiographically at a mean follow-up of 5 years (range 24 months to 9 years). The mean age at follow-up was 26.3 years (range 17-44 years). The IKDC and Kujala and Tegner scores were used for the clinical evaluation. Anteroposterior, lateral and Merchant views were done for radiographic monitoring. When the patella was still unstable during dynamic evaluation after execution of the Elmslie-Trillat procedure, the medial third of the patellar tendon was isolated and harvested with a corresponding 1 cm long and 0.5 cm wide bone plug, maintaining its insertion to the inferior medial side of the patella. This ligament was medialized and put under tension, trying to find a medial insertion that guaranteed patellar stability throughout the full range of motion. RESULTS: IKDC classified 11 knees as A (normal), 4 knees as B (almost normal), 2 knees as C (abnormal) and 1 knee as D (severely abnormal). The Kujala score showed excellent results in 16 knees, 1 fair and 1 poor knee. The mean Tegner score rose from 2 preoperatively to 5 at follow-up. The poor knee presented an over-correction of the congruence angle on radiography. On follow-up radiographs, the parameters were almost completely corrected. Statistical analysis showed a significant correction of radiograph parameters, and significantly worse results in patients who underwent trochleoplasty. CONCLUSION: The technique described tries to achieve a dynamic stability of the patella throughout the full range of motion in severe patellar instability where the Elmslie-Trillat procedure is insufficient. No recurrence of patellar instability has been observed. The stability must be obtained with dynamic control in the initial degrees of flexion, trying to avoid an excessive patellar medialization.
12751494	Clinical trials face heightened scrutiny as science and commerce appear to merge.	Clinical trials involving human subjects face increased scrutiny and regulation by the federal government that may lead to costly changes to the process. Prompted by a highly publicized death in a gene therapy trial, federal regulators are examining almost all aspects of clinical trial conduct, from how patients are recruited and how they give informed consent, to the relationship between the researchers and the company sponsoring the research. In addition to the heightened regulation, the government has announced that it will seek the power to impose civil money penalties on researchers who do not observe applicable patient protection regulations. In an effort to include more senior citizens in clinical trials, the government for the first time will cover certain costs of Medicare beneficiaries who participate in clinical trials. The risk of increased government involvement includes criminal prosecution of physicians for failing to follow the rules, as an innovative case in California demonstrates.
12753076	Heterologous mu-opioid receptor adaptation by repeated stimulation of kappa-opioid receptor: up-regulation of G-protein activation and antinociception.	The present study was designed to investigate the effect of repeated administration of a selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist (1S-trans)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl]-benzeneacetamide hydrochloride [(-)U-50,488H] on antinociception and G-protein activation induced by mu-opioid receptor agonists in mice. A single s.c. injection of (-)U-50,488H produced a dose-dependent antinociception, and this effect was reversed by a selective kappa-opioid receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI). Furthermore, a single s.c. pre-treatment with (-)U-50,488H had no effect on the mu-opioid receptor agonist-induced antinociception. In contrast, repeated s.c. administration of (-)U-50,488H resulted in the development of tolerance to (-)U-50,488H-induced antinociception. Under these conditions, we demonstrated here that repeated s.c. injection of (-)U-50,488H significantly enhanced the antinociceptive effect of selective mu-opioid receptor agonists endomorphin-1, endomorphin-2 and [d-Ala2,N-MePhe4,Gly-ol5] enkephalin (DAMGO). Using the guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio) triphosphate ([35S]GTP gamma S) binding assay, we found that (-)U-50,488H was able to produce a nor-BNI-reversible increase in [35S]GTP gamma S binding to membranes of the mouse thalamus, which has a high level of kappa-opioid receptors. Repeated administration of (-)U-50,488H caused a significant reduction in the (-)U-50,488H-stimulated [35S]GTP gamma S binding in this region, whereas chronic treatment with (-)U-50,488H exhibited the increase in the endomorphin-1-, endomorphin-2- and DAMGO-stimulated [35S]GTP gamma S bindings in membranes of the thalamus and periaqueductal gray. These results suggest that repeated stimulation of kappa-opioid receptors leads to the heterologous up-regulation of mu-opioid receptor functions in the thalamus and periaqueductal gray regions, which may be associated with the supersensitivity of mu-opioid receptor-mediated antinociception.
12754845	[Mathematical simulation of induction of long-term depression in cerebellar Purkinje cells]	Mechanisms of associative and homosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) in cerebellar Purkinje cells are discussed. The possibility of LTD induction related to a decrease in efficacy of AMPA receptors through either their dephosphorylation or phosphorylation is investigated by mathematical simulation.
12763201	Auditory capture of vision: examining temporal ventriloquism.	Four experiments investigated whether irrelevant sounds can influence the perception of lights in a visual temporal order judgment task, where participants judged which of two lights appeared first. In Experiment 1, presenting a sound before the first light and after the second light improved performance relative to baseline (sounds appearing simultaneously with the lights), as if the sounds pulled the perception of lights further apart in time. Experiment 2 ruled out an alerting explanation for this effect and indicated that the performance improvement resulted from the second sound trailing the second light. Experiment 3 excluded the possibility that leading or simultaneous sounds were interfering with performance and revealed that only the second sound had an effect within the temporal window known to support multisensory integration. Experiment 4 demonstrated that sounds intervening between the two lights led to a decline in performance, as if the sounds pulled the lights closer together. The results suggest a 'temporal ventriloquism' phenomenon analogous to spatial ventriloquism.
12764453	[Effectiveness of weekly iron sulfate in the Family Health Program in Caruaru, Pernambuco State, Brazil]	This study evaluates the effectiveness of an experimental project for combating anemia in children ages 6-23 months using weekly doses of iron sulfate within the Family Health Program. In 1999, the Brazilian Ministry of Health began an experimental program to combat anemia in 300,000 children from 512 municipalities in the Northeast of the country. Children received a weekly dose of 50mg of elementary iron for approximately 24 weeks. Two hundred and ninety-three children ages 6-23 months from the urban and rural areas of the municipality of Caruaru in Pernambuco State were evaluated. Before the trial, mean hemoglobin was 10.1 (+/- 0.98) g/dl, and 77.5% of the children were anemic. Following treatment, mean hemoglobin rose to 11.1 (+/- 0.87) g/dl, while the prevalence of anemia fell to 40.3%. This strategy represents a promising tool to reduce prevalence and to control severe forms of anemia in children.
12768097	&quot;Don't just do something, stand there!&quot;: to teach or not to teach, that is the question--intravenous fluid resuscitation training for Combat Lifesavers.	Good Level I scientific evidence supporting the efficacy (decreased morbidity and mortality) of prehospital fluid administration by civilian Emergency Medical Services personnel is lacking. The efficacy of this procedure in the hands of army Combat Lifesavers is even less well substantiated. The purpose of this article is to look critically at the skill of intravenous fluid administration that is taught to army Combat Lifesavers and to consider whether or not the application of that skill is actually beneficial to the majority of patients who are recipients of this procedure. A method is described to assist medical educators in making decisions as to which skills should be taught to health care providers, and this method is loosely applied in the following discussion about whether Combat Lifesavers should receive training to start and administer intravenous fluids. Good scientific studies, based on valid data, need to be performed to determine the efficacy of intravenous fluid administration and other combat medical skills.
12768373	Rectal malignant melanoma diagnosed by N-isopropyl- p-123I-iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography and 5-S-cysteinyl dopa: report of a case.	Malignant melanoma in the anorectal region is a rare disease associated with a very poor prognosis. Taking a biopsy of malignant melanoma is generally contraindicated because of the high risk of inducing metastasis. Although clinical examination and imaging findings are important for the preoperative diagnosis, conventional imaging techniques sometimes fail to provide information from which an accurate diagnosis can be made. We recently treated an 84-year-old woman with rectal malignant melanoma, in whom magnetic resonance imaging showed atypical findings. On the other hand, N-isopropyl- p-(123)I-iodoamphetamine single photon emission computed tomography and 5- S-cysteinyl dopa in blood serum, as a tumor marker of malignant melanoma, proved very effective for establishing the preoperative diagnosis. Despite radical abdominoperineal resection, the patient died of multiple liver and lung metastases about 5 months after surgery.
12771694	Maternal management behaviors for young children with type 1 diabetes.	PURPOSE: To describe the process that mothers raising young (0-4 years old) children who are newly diagnosed with type 1 diabetes move through to attain the necessary skills to care for their children. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A mixed methods design was used, including qualitative interviews with 28 mothers of young children with type 1 diabetes. Principles of naturalistic inquiry were used to guide the data collection process, management, and analysis of the qualitative findings. RESULTS: The process paralleled two of three management approaches and associated behaviors previously described by Gallo and Knafl. Strict adherence behaviors included rigidly following the team recommendations and avoiding strange environments outside the home. Flexible adherence behaviors strove to bring spontaneity back into family life. Selective adherence was not used by this population. CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Nurses working with these mothers can provide information and support to help them transition from using strict adherence to the more user-friendly flexible adherence, while avoiding the pitfalls of the possibly harmful third approach of selective adherence. Nurses need to remember to praise the parents' efforts at managing their children's diabetes, for our acknowledgment of their work is empowering and affirming.
12772062	[Myosonographic and electromyographic (EMC) evaluation of donor-site morbidity after microsurgical TRAM flap]	Due to improved microsurgical techniques the role of autologous breast reconstruction is expanding. One reason is the decreased donor-site morbidity compared to other techniques. Perforator based flaps (DIEP flaps) seemingly decrease the damage of the abdominal wall due to flap harvesting. However, complication rate in perforator flaps is still considered to be higher than in TRAM flaps. Additionally, operating time is increased due to the meticulous microsurgical dissection of perforators. To evaluate whether donor-site morbidity is caused by harvesting a part of the rectus muscle (as TRAM flaps), 15 patients after unilateral muscle sparing TRAM flap underwent EMG and myosonographic examination of the rectus muscle. EMG is the only technique to assess the muscle functionally, as the electrical activity of the muscle is recorded, and motor unit recruitment can be shown. EMG examination clearly revealed that harvesting of a muscle sparing TRAM flap did not impair the rectus muscle compared to the intact contralateral muscle. However, motor units were enlarged. Myosonography (in contrast to MRI) detected particular damage of isolated muscle fibres indicating nerve-related muscle changes. Taking all findings together, harvesting of a part of the rectus muscle shows a distinct damage to the muscle. The muscle however still acts functionally. This indicates that problems after harvesting a TRAM flap (bulging, hernias etc.) are not due to the partial removal of muscle, but due to the general dissection of the abdominal wall, as seen in other abdominal operations.
12775865	Health status measurement: sensitivity of the self-reported Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire (CRQ-SR) in pulmonary rehabilitation.	BACKGROUND: A self-reported CRQ (CRQ-SR) has recently been developed and found to be a reproducible and reliable measure of health status. This study explores both the sensitivity of the CRQ-SR and relative sensitivity compared with the conventional interviewer led CRQ (CRQ-IL) in patients undergoing pulmonary rehabilitation. METHODS: Eighty patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who had been referred for pulmonary rehabilitation completed the CRQ-SR at initial assessment and at the end of the 7 week programme. A further 35 patients completed both the CRQ-SR and the CRQ-IL, administered 1 week apart, before starting rehabilitation and again at the end of the programme. RESULTS: There were large statistically and clinically significant changes in mean score per dimension following rehabilitation in all dimensions of the CRQ-SR (dyspnoea mean difference 0.87 (95% CI 0.61 to 1.14); fatigue 0.76 (0.53 to 1.0); emotion 0.60 (0.35 to 0.86); mastery 0.76 (0.52 to 1.0); p&lt;0.001). Similar results were found in the comparison of the sensitivity of the CRQ-SR and the CRQ-IL, with large changes in mean score per dimension following rehabilitation for both versions of the questionnaire (p&lt;0.005). No significant differences were seen in the magnitude of change between the two formats of the questionnaire (p>0.05). CONCLUSION: The self-reported CRQ is as sensitive to change as the interviewer led CRQ in patients undergoing pulmonary rehabilitation but has the advantage of being less time consuming to administer.
12780534	Classification and diagnosis of prostatitis: a gold standard?	The National Institutes of Health Classification System for prostatitis has now been accepted by the North American and International urology community. This categorization system consists of category I (acute bacterial prostatitis), category II (chronic bacterial prostatitis), category III (chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome - CP/CPPS) and category IV asymptomatic inflammatory prostatitis. The evaluation of a patient with category I and category II bacterial prostatitis consists of history and physical examination and urine culture for lower urinary tract localization cultures, respectively. The clinical tests for the evaluation of CP/CPPS can be classified as mandatory, recommended and optional. Mandatory evaluations include history and physical examination, urinalysis and urine culture. Recommended evaluations include lower urinary tract localization tests, symptom index, flow rate, residual urine determination and urine cytology. Optional evaluations include semen analysis and culture, urethral swab, urodynamics, cystoscopy, imaging, and prostate specific antigen determination. The physician must individualize a rational diagnostic strategy for each patient. There is no 'gold standard' for the diagnosis and evaluation of patients presenting with prostatitis.
12781620	Combined 99mTc MDP bone SPECT and 99mTc sestamibi muscle SPECT for assessment of bone regrowth and free muscle flap viability in an electrical burn of scalp.	A case of deep high energy electrical burn of the skull is presented. For assessment of bone regrowth and muscle flap viability after application of latissimus dorsi free flap, combined 99mTc MDP bone SPECT and 99mTc sestamibi muscle SPECT scintigraphy were used. Whereas 99mTc MDP bone SPECT showed absent uptake at the beginning, there was good uptake 3 months after flap application. 99mTc sestamibi SPECT revealed good uptake indicating normal perfusion of flap muscle tissue.
12786270	Onset of turbulence in accelerated high-Reynolds-number flow.	A new criterion, flow drive time, is identified here as a necessary condition for transition to turbulence in accelerated, unsteady flows. Compressible, high-Reynolds-number flows initiated, for example, in shock tubes, supersonic wind tunnels with practical limitations on dimensions or reservoir capacity, and high energy density pulsed laser target vaporization experimental facilities may not provide flow duration adequate for turbulence development. In addition, for critical periods of the overall flow development, the driving background flow is often unsteady in the experiments as well as in the physical flow situations they are designed to mimic. In these situations transition to fully developed turbulence may not be realized despite achievement of flow Reynolds numbers associated with or exceeding stationary flow transitional criteria. Basically our transitional criterion and prediction procedure extends to accelerated, unsteady background flow situations the remarkably universal mixing transition criterion proposed by Dimotakis [P. E. Dimotakis, J. Fluid Mech. 409, 69 (2000)] for stationary flows. This provides a basis for the requisite space and time scaling. The emphasis here is placed on variable density flow instabilities initiated by constant acceleration Rayleigh-Taylor instability (RTI) or impulsive (shock) acceleration Richtmyer-Meshkov instability (RMI) or combinations of both. The significant influences of compressibility on these developing transitional flows are discussed with their implications on the procedural model development. A fresh perspective for predictive modeling and design of experiments for the instability growth and turbulent mixing transitional interval is provided using an analogy between the well-established buoyancy-drag model with applications of a hierarchy of single point turbulent transport closure models. Experimental comparisons with the procedural results are presented where use is made of three distinctly different types of acceleration driven instability experiments: (1) classical, relatively low speed, constant acceleration RTI experiments; (2) shock tube, shockwave driven RMI flow mixing experiments; (3) laser target vaporization RTI and RMI mixing experiments driven at very high energy density. These last named experiments are of special interest as they provide scaleable flow conditions simulating those of astrophysical magnitude such as shock-driven hydrodynamic mixing in supernova evolution research.
12787591	The influence of environmental variability on silicate exchange rates between sediment and water in a shallow-water coastal ecosystem, the Seto Inland Sea, Japan.	Silicate regeneration was determined in a shallow-water coastal ecosystem (Shido Bay, the Seto Inland Sea, Japan) during 1999-2000. The present study was carried out directly by core incubation and by determining gradients of dissolved silicate (DSi) in the pore water. Incubated fluxes ranged from 25.5 to 132.6 mgSim(-2)d(-1), and were 1.6-21.6 times greater than diffusive fluxes (5.4-43.3 mgSim(-2)d(-1)). The disparity between fluxes measured by core incubation and modeling pore water indicated that other physical, chemical or biological processes, in addition to diffusion of DSi from below, contribute to DSi fluxes measured during the incubation of undisturbed cores. A regression analysis revealed that water temperature and salinity explained 24% and 23%, respectively, of season to season variability in incubated fluxes. Microphytobenthos was responsible for 37% of the variability in measured rate of DSi fluxes, with greatly reducing DSi release rates due to their own DSi demand. Moreover, the inverse relationship between the DSi fluxes and biogenic silica (Bio-Si) concentrations in the surface sediment, suggested that about 41% of the variability in the DSi fluxes were explained by Bio-Si concentrations in the surface sediment. As a result, Shido Bay showed silicate regeneration of incubated cores to be a consequence of Bio-Si dissolution depending on microphytobenthos, temperature and salinity, while diffusive fluxes appeared to be limited by DSi in the pore water. An annual average of DSi flux (68.7+/-32.9 mgSim(-2)d(-1)) from the sediments to the water column corresponds to 38% of DSi, required for primary production by phytoplankton in Shido Bay.
12788849	Cardiovascular risk factors and common carotid artery caliber and stiffness in patients with Cushing's disease during active disease and 1 year after disease remission.	Cardiovascular accidents represent the most important cause of death in patients with Cushing's syndrome. This prospective study aims at evaluating carotid arteries by echo-Doppler ultrasonography and clinical and metabolic markers of atherosclerosis in 25 patients with Cushing's disease (CD) before and after 1 yr of remission. Thirty-two sex- and age-matched subjects (control-1) and 32 body mass index-matched subjects (control-2) served as controls. At diagnosis, CD patients had higher body mass index, waist to hip ratio (WHR), total, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol and total/high-density lipoprotein (HDL) ratio, glucose and insulin, as well as lower HDL-cholesterol than control-1; they had higher WHR and total/HDL ratio and lower HDL-cholesterol than control-2. They also had higher intima-media thickness (IMT), and lower systolic lumen diameter and distensibility coefficient (DC) than either control group. Atherosclerotic plaques were detected in 31.2% of patients, 0 control-1, and 6.2% of control-2 subjects. One year after remission, WHR, LDL-cholesterol, and IMT significantly decreased, whereas systolic lumen diameter and DC significantly increased. However, all of the above parameters were still abnormal compared with control-1, but not control-2. A significant correlation was found between WHR, glucose and insulin levels, and right and left carotid IMT. WHR was the best predictor of left IMT and left DC in active, but not in cured, patients. The duration of hypercortisolism was the best predictor of right DC in active but not in cured patients. In conclusion, patients with CD have severe atherosclerotic damage. The persistence of a metabolic syndrome, vascular damage, and atherosclerotic plaques after cortisol level normalization makes these subjects still at high cardiovascular risk despite disease remission.
12791536	Associations between smoking and heritable temperament traits.	Cloninger's neuropsychopharmacological theory identifies heritable temperament traits that are linked to neurotransmitter activity. We tested whether these traits were associated with smoking. The four temperament dimensions of the French-language version of the Temperament and Character Inventory were assessed in three distinct samples recruited on the Internet in 2000-2001. Novelty Seeking (NS) was measured in 775 people, Reward Dependence (RD) in 1,383 people, and Harm Avoidance (HA) and Persistence (P) in 823 people. HA (2.1 points, p.03) and NS (3.2 points, p.01) were lower in never-smokers than in ever-smokers. RD (.6 point, p.01) and P (.5 point, p.01) were lower in former smokers than in current smokers. The level of tobacco dependence was associated with the NS subscore Extravagance (.1 point on the Heaviness of Smoking Index per point on Extravagance, p.01). Motivation to quit smoking was positively associated with the RD subscore Sentimentality (.1 point on a 0-10 scale of motivation per point on Sentimentality, p.01) and negatively with the HA subscore Fear of Uncertainty (.2 point of motivation per point, p.01). Among ex-smokers, age at smoking cessation was negatively associated with P (.5 year per point on P, p.02) and positively associated with the HA subscore Fatigability (.3 year per point, p.04) and with the NS subscore Disorderliness (.3 year per point, p.03). Smoking is associated with heritable temperament traits. Consequences for the treatment and prevention of tobacco dependence are discussed.
12795418	Genomic analysis of glucocorticoid-regulated promoters in murine T-lymphoma cells.	We have undertaken a high-throughput analysis to identify targets of glucocorticoid regulation in P1798 murine T-lymphoma cells. G1/S-arrested cultures were treated for 8 hours with 0.1 microM dexamethasone (dex) in the presence and absence of 1 microg/ml cycloheximide. Untreated cultures and cultures exposed to cycloheximide alone were prepared as controls. RNA was isolated and gene expression analyzed using Affymetrix MG-U74A oligonucleotide arrays (Gene Chips). Three independent experiments were performed. The data were analyzed using a variety of statistical and analytical approaches in order to identify primary transcriptional targets of the glucocorticoid receptor. We identified 44 genes that increase by > 2-fold in both dex-treated and dex + cycloheximide-treated cultures (relative to control and cycloheximide-treated cultures) in three replicate experiments. Statistical analysis of control data indicate that the probability that a given probeset would, as a result of random error, increase > 2-fold both in the presence and absence of cycloheximide in two independent experiments is approximately 7 x 10(-9). We have retrieved from the Celera mouse genomic sequence 8 kb of promoter sequence, spanning 4 kb either side of the 5'-end of the cDNA from eight of the induced genes. These sequences were analyzed for potential glucocorticoid receptor binding sites. Five of these genes contain the sequence ACAnnnTGTnCT within 4 kb of the presumptive transcriptional start site. Eight control genes were selected at random and analyzed for the sequence ACAnnnTGTnCT. Two control genes had such sequences within 4 kb of the transcriptional start site.
12798100	First national survey of atmospheric heavy metal deposition in Hungary by the analysis of mosses.	The atmospheric deposition of Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ni, Pb, V and Zn in Hungary was investigated by using moss species as bioindicators. Our research was part of an international mapping project (Atmospheric Heavy Metal Deposition in Europe) [NORD 21 (1987) 1-44; NORD 9 (1994)] carried out in the most European countries in the 1990s to determine and to compare atmospheric heavy metal background pollution by standardized methods. Sampling was performed at 116 sites distributed over Hungary in the autumn of 1997. Moss species of Hypnum cupressiforme (72.4%) were preferred. But where it could not be collected, other species were taken. Unwashed, dried samples were digested with H(2)O(2)/HNO(3), and the concentrations of heavy metals were determined by ICP-AES. The results reflect local emission points. Background mean levels of Cd, Fe and Ni were mildly elevated in comparison to European means [NORD 9 (1994)]. Probably, that was due not only to pollution, but to the use of Hypnum cupressiforme, which can accumulate higher concentrations of heavy metals compared to other species. The results are presented on colored contour maps obtained with the SURFER program (Golden Software Inc. Co).
12798718	Concurrent carboplatin with pelvic radiation therapy in the primary treatment of cervix cancer.	OBJECTIVES: The objectives were to determine the acute toxicities of concurrent carboplatin and radiation therapy in the primary treatment of cervix cancer and to ascertain the antitumor activity of this regimen. METHODS: Patients with stage IB-1 to IVA untreated primary cervix cancers were eligible for enrollment into this study. Carboplatin was administered on a weekly basis with external radiation therapy (ERT). Low-dose brachytherapy was given after completion of ERT. Acute toxicities and response to treatment were assessed. RESULTS: Thirty-one evaluable patients were enrolled. The majority of patients had early stage disease. Carboplatin was successfully administered in 175 out of 186 (94%) planned treatments. All patients completed the prescribed course of radiation therapy. The mean treatment time was 50 days (36-73). There were no treatment delays for neutropenia or gastrointestinal toxicity. No patient was hospitalized for treatment related toxicities. Gastrointestinal toxicity equivalent to grade 3 or 4 was not reported. The objective tumor response based on physical exam findings and computed tomography measurements was 90%. CONCLUSION: Patients with cervix cancer can be treated on schedule with concurrent carboplatin and pelvic radiation therapy. This regimen is well tolerated and produces excellent response rates.
12800469	A yoga teacher with persistent cheilitis.	This is a depiction of an evolving case report right from its presentation to the physician and its documentation and further sharing of it through the net via e-mails and evidence-based-health@jiscmail.ac.uk as well as other colleagues.
12802731	New cytotoxic sesquiterpene lactones from Warionia saharae.	Cytotoxicity-guided fractionation of the methanol soluble part of the dichloromethane extract of the leaves of Warionia saharae led to the isolation of the two new guaianolide-type sesquiterpene lactones, 5 alpha H-3 beta,4 beta-epoxy-14-oxo-guaia-1(10),11(13)-dien-6 alpha,12-olide (1), 5 alpha H-2 beta,4 beta-epoxy-3 alpha-hydroxy-guaia-1(10),11(13)-dien-6 alpha,12-olide (6), and the new eudesmane type sesquiterpene 1 beta,6 alpha-dihydroxycostic acid ( 4). In addition, the known sesquiterpene lactones 5 alpha H-2 beta-hydroxyguaia-3(4),10(14),11(13)-trien-6 alpha,12-olide (2), reynosin (3), 5 alpha H-1 alpha,10 alpha:3 alpha,4 alpha-diepoxyguaia-11(13)-en-6 alpha,12-olide (5), and dehydroleucodin (7) were isolated together with the known flavone hispidulin. Cytotoxicity testing of the sesquiterpene lactones against the KB cancer cell line (ATCC CCL17) revealed IC50 values of 3.5 (1), 2.6 ( 2), 2.7 ( 3), 4.3 ( 5), 3.6 ( 6), and 1.3 (7) microg/mL. Compound 4 was not active up to 20 microg/mL.
12804498	Ibuprofen for Alzheimer's disease.	BACKGROUND: Non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen may have a role in the treatment of conditions characterized by inflammatory processes. Ibuprofen may attenuate the effects of modulators of inflammation that have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. OBJECTIVES: To investigate the efficacy of ibuprofen treatment for people with Alzheimer's disease. SEARCH STRATEGY: The trials were identified from a search of the Specialized Register of the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group on 10 December 2002 using the (many) terms listed in the main text of the review. The CDCIG Register is updated regularly and contains records from all major health care databases and many ongoing trials databases. In addition computerized databases and Internet sites pertaining to ibuprofen and Alzheimer's disease were systematically examined by two reviewers independently. Data on ongoing trials of ibuprofen for the treatment of people with AD were also sought. SELECTION CRITERIA: Eligibility for this review included all single or multi centre placebo-controlled randomized trials examining the efficacy of ibuprofen in the treatment of people diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease according to internationally accepted criteria. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were specified to ensure lack of bias in selection and methodological quality of selected trials. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The aim was for the two reviewers NT and HF to collect data independently. The data selected would reflect cognitive, behavioural, physical and psychological domains of AD. MAIN RESULTS: A systematic search of all available databases and other sources failed to identify any completed randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled trials, assessing the efficacy of ibuprofen in AD eligible for inclusion in the review. One double-blind placebo-controlled trial investigating ibuprofen treatment for age-associated memory impairment has been identified, but is yet unfinished and no data are yet available. Other trials assessing the effect of ibuprofen on CSF beta amyloid in cognitively unimpaired individuals and the effect of other NSAIDs such as naproxen and rofecoxib for people with AD are currently under way. REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: No evidence yet exists from randomized double-blind and placebo-controlled trials on whether ibuprofen is efficacious for patients diagnosed as having Alzheimer's disease. Ibuprofen, like other NSAIDs, has an identifiable and in some instances a significant side-effect profile which may include gastrointestinal bleeding. Therefore, it needs to be shown that the benefits of such a treatment outweighs the risk of side effects before ibuprofen can be recommended for people with Alzheimer's disease.
12804612	Emergency department mental health triage consultancy service: a qualitative evaluation.	This study evaluated staff perception of a three-month clinical trial of an emergency mental health triage and consultancy service. Eleven night duty emergency department (ED) staff were interviewed on the last night of the trial. Data was analysed according to the standards of qualitative research and through content analysis major themes were identified. Staff-perceived value of the emergency mental health triage and consultancy service to the emergency department was identified under three major themes: &quot;enhancing the quality of service for people requiring psychiatric/psychosocial intervention&quot;, &quot;the impact on the ED environment&quot; and &quot;providing education and support&quot;. The findings of this study show that ED staff perceived that the emergency mental health triage and consultancy service made a valuable contribution to the overall functioning of the ED. The findings also highlight the advanced practice role undertaken by mental health nurses in the ED.
12808715	From dust to dust: ethical and practical issues involved in the location, exhumation, and identification of bodies from mass graves.	There are many potential purposes served by the investigation of human remains: criminal fact-finding, archaeological exploration, forensic research, and others. This paper focuses on the identification of remains from mass graves to find missing persons. The primary goal of such efforts is to honor the memory of the dead by bringing closure to living family members, thus supporting the human rights of both the living and the deceased. Cultures, customs, political, and interpersonal specifics will vary, but that singular goal should remain the central guiding principle. This article presents ethical and practical issues resulting from efforts to locate, exhume, and identify the remains of mass fatalities.
12810311	Large-scale spatial variation in mercury concentrations in cattle in NW Spain.	Mercury (Hg) is a highly toxic environmental contaminant and man-made emissions account for between a quarter and a third of total atmospheric levels. Point discharges, particularly coal-burning power stations, are major sources of atmospheric Hg and can result in marked spatial variation in mercury deposition and subsequent uptake by biota. The aims of this study were to quantify the extent to which major point and diffuse sources of atmospheric Hg emissions affected accumulation of Hg by biota throughout Galicia and Asturias, two of the major regions in northwest Spain. We did this by relating renal Hg concentrations in locally reared cattle (n=284) to the proximity of animals to point and diffuse sources of Hg emissions. Mercury residues in calf kidneys ranged between non-detected and 89.4 g/kg wet weight. Point discharges from coal-fired power plants in Galicia had the most dominant impact on Hg accumulation by calves in Galicia, affecting animals throughout the region and explaining some two-thirds of the variation in renal residues between animals located directly downwind from the plants. The effects of more diffuse emission sources on Hg accumulation in calves were not distinguishable in Galicia but were detected in cattle from neighbouring Asturias. The impact of both point and diffuse sources in elevating environmental levels of bioavailable Hg and subsequent accumulation by cattle extended to approximately 140-200 km downwind from source.
12815723	Reconstructing eukaryotic NAD metabolism.	In addition to its well-known role as a coenzyme in oxidation-reduction reactions, the distinct role of NAD as a precursor for molecules involved in cell regulation has been clearly established. The involvement of NAD in these regulatory processes is based on its ability to function as a donor of ADP-ribose; NAD synthesis is therefore required to avoid depletion of the intracellular pool. The rising interest in the biosynthetic routes leading to NAD formation and the highly conserved nature of the enzymes involved prompted us to reconstruct the NAD biosynthetic routes operating in distinct eukaryotic organisms. The evidence obtained from biochemical and computational analysis provides a good example of how complex metabolic pathways may evolve. In particular, it is proposed that the development of several NAD biosynthetic routes during evolution has led to partial functional redundancy, allowing a given pathway to freely acquire novel functions unrelated to NAD biosynthesis.
12823936	Epstein-Barr virus and the B cell: a secret romance.	Infection by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in immunocompetent individuals seems mainly confined to antigen-experienced memory B cells. However, a recent report shows that EBV(+) post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease might arise not only from memory B cells but also from nai;ve and germinal center (GC) B cells. Intriguingly, some of the EBV-positive B-cell clones seem to carry non-functional Ig-V-region genes as a result of deleterious somatic mutations acquired during the GC reaction. Given that such GC B cells are destined to die by apoptosis in the absence of EBV, these findings suggest that transformation by EBV might bypass negative selection of B cells within GCs.
12828241	Short-term projections for variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease onsets.	Projections of both the short- and long-term course of the variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) epidemic in Great Britain have demonstrated great uncertainty due to the lack of knowledge of key aspects of the biology and epidemiology of this new disease. Such projections are sensitive to assumptions made regarding the pattern of exposure to BSE-infected animals, the effectiveness of control measures introduced in 1989 and 1996 in reducing this exposure, the functional form of the incubation period distribution and patterns of age-dependent susceptibility/exposure. This paper provides short-term projections for vCJD onsets using the time- and age-distributed onset data to the end of 2000, with results that are directly comparable to the other papers in this issue. These results demonstrate the continued uncertainty in the future scale of this disease.
12839411	Bioterrorism and catastrophe response: a quick-reference guide to resources.	BACKGROUND: Dentists' responses to catastrophe have been redefined by bioterrorism. Informed response requires accurate information about agents and diseases that have the potential to be used as weapons. METHODS: The authors reviewed information about the most probable bioterrorist weapons (those from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention's Category A) from the World Wide Web and print journals and distilled it into a resource list that is current, relevant to dentistry and noncommercial. The Web sites cited include those sponsored by federal agencies, academic institutions and professional organizations. The articles cited include those published in English within the last six years in refereed journals that are available in most higher education institutions. RESULTS: The authors present the information in a table that provides a quick-reference guide to resources describing agents and diseases with the greatest potential for use as weapons: anthrax, botulism, plague, smallpox, tularemia and viral hemorrhagic fevers. This article presents Web site and journal citations for background and patient-oriented information (fact sheets), signs and symptoms, and prophylactic measures and treatment for each of the agents and diseases. The table facilitates quick access to this information, especially in an emergency. This article also points out guidelines for response should a suspected attack occur. CONCLUSIONS: Armed with information about biological weapons, dentists can provide faster diagnosis, inform their patients about risks, prophylaxis or treatment and rethink their own role in terrorism response. CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Fast, accurate diagnosis limits the spread of exceptionally contagious diseases. Providing accurate information to patients minimizes misinformation and the associated public fear and panic that, unchecked, could overwhelm health care systems.
12841897	Contraceptive treatment after biliopancreatic diversion needs consensus.	BACKGROUND: An important population of patients who undergo biliopancreatic diversion (BPD) are fertile women. A consensus is needed with regard to contraceptive therapy after BPD by evaluating the risks of pregnancy, the safety of oral contraception and the changes in fertility after this bariatric surgery. METHOD: From May 1997 until May 1998, 40 women who underwent a BPD were included in a prospective study evaluating the hormone status preoperatively and postoperatively after 2 and 7 days, 3 and 6 months and 1 year. An extensive questionnaire, with regard to fertility and obstetric history, was sent at least 2 years after inclusion. A literature search was performed to understand the complex physiology of hormone changes after excess weight loss, as well as absorption and metabolism of oral contraceptives. RESULTS: Our laboratory results are consistent with hormone changes found in the literature, which show that rising levels of serum sex-hormone-binding globulin, follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone and decreasing levels of testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate result in an improved fertility status, regulated through complex interactions, in particular with the gonatotropin-releasing-hormone pulse generator. The questionnaire shows the use of different types of contraception. From the 9 patients who only used oral contraception, 2 patients developed an unforeseen pregnancy after BPD. Although miscarriages and neonatal complications were seen in other patients in our hospital, none of these problems were seen in our study. CONCLUSION: Pregnancy should be avoided for 12 to 18 months after BPD. Fertility increases after BPD. As oral contraception is most popular and less reliable, we strongly believe that large multi-centre, prospective, randomized studies are necessary to come to a consensus about the use of contraceptive therapy after BPD.
12844170	Bioassay of toxaphene for possible carcinogenicity.	A bioassay of technical-grade toxaphene for possible carcinogenicity was conducted by administering the test chemical in feed to Osborne-Mendel rats and B6C3F1 mice. Groups of 50 rats of each sex were administered toxaphene at one of two doses for 80 weeks, then observed for 28 or 30 weeks. Time-weighted average doses for males were 556 or 1,112 ppm; for females they were 540 or 1,080 ppm. Matched controls consisted of groups of 10 untreated rats of each sex; pooled controls consisted of the matched-control groups for toxaphene combined with 45 untreated male and 45 untreated female rats from similar bioassays of five other test chemicals. All surviving rats were killed at 108-110 weeks. Groups of 50 mice of each sex were administered toxaphene at one of two doses for 80 weeks, then observed for 10 or 11 weeks. Time-weighted average doses were 99 or 198 ppm for both males and females. Matched controls consisted of groups of 10 untreated mice of each sex; pooled controls consisted of the matched-control groups for toxaphene combined with 40 untreated male and 40 untreated female mice from similar bioassays of four other test chemicals. All surviving mice were killed at 90-91 weeks. Mean body weights attained by low- and high-dose female rats and high-dose male mice were lower than those of matched controls, but weights of other dosed groups were essentially unaffected by the toxaphene. Other clinical signs of toxicity in rats included generalized body tremors at week 53 in high-dose male and female animals, and later, leg paralysis, ataxia, epistaxis, hematuria, and vaginal bleeding, predominantly in the dosed groups of rats of each sex. Abdominal distention, diarrhea, dyspnea, and rough hair coats were common to both dosed rats and dosed mice. There were dose-related decreases in survival rates in mice but not in rats. Sufficient numbers of both rats and mice were at risk for the development of late-appearing tumors. In the male rats, the incidence of follicular-cell carcinomas or adenomas of the thyroid was dose related (P=0.007) using the pooled controls (matched controls 1/7, pooled controls 2/44, low-dose 7/41, high-dose 9/35). In the females, the incidence of follicular-cell adenomas of the thyroid was dose related using either the matched (P=0.022) or pooled (P=0.008) controls (matched controls 0/6, pooled controls 1/46, low-dose 1/43, high-dose 7/42). Direct comparisons of dosed and pooled-control groups but not matched controls showed significantly increased incidences of follicular-cell carcinomas or adenomas in the high-dose males (P=0.008) and of follicular-cell adenomas in the high-dose females (P=0.021). Two follicular-cell tumors in the high-dose males were carcinomas; all other follicular-cell tumors in the rats were adenomas. In the mice, the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas was dose related (P&lt;0.001) for both males (matched controls 0/10, pooled controls 4/48, low-dose 34/49, high-dose 45/46) and females (matched controls 0/9, pooled controls 0/48, low-dose 5/49, high-dose 34/49), using either matched or pooled controls. Direct comparisons showed that the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in low- and high-dose male mice and high-dose female mice were all significantly higher (P&lt;0.001) than those in the respective matched or pooled controls. Statistical significance was maintained when the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas was combined with that of neoplastic nodules of the liver. It is concluded that under the conditions of this bioassay, toxaphene was carcinogenic in male and female B6C3F1 mice, causing increased incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas. The test results also suggest carcinogenicity of toxaphene for the thyroid of male and female Osborne-Mendel rats.
12851344	Tumors about the knee misdiagnosed as athletic injuries.	BACKGROUND: Musculoskeletal tumors may originally mimic a traumatic condition, and, on the basis of an erroneous diagnosis of an athletic injury, an invasive diagnostic or therapeutic procedure may be performed. We determined the number of such cases treated at our institution, and we analyzed the initial and final diagnoses as well as the changes in the indicated oncologic surgical technique due to the initial erroneous diagnosis. METHODS: Twenty-five patients who had a bone or soft-tissue tumor about the knee that originally had been diagnosed as an athletic injury were referred to our institution. The complete clinical, radiographic, and pathological records were reviewed. Studies that had been performed prior to the invasive procedure and at the time of admission to our institution were evaluated to determine differences in the tumor stage and the oncologic treatment that was indicated at each time. RESULTS: Of 667 knee tumors diagnosed in our institution, twenty-five (3.7%) previously had been treated with an intra-articular procedure as a result of a misdiagnosis of an athletic injury. The final diagnoses made at our institution were a benign tumor in eleven patients and a malignant tumor in fourteen. Oncologic surgical treatment was affected in fifteen of the twenty-five patients. CONCLUSIONS: When a knee tumor is initially misdiagnosed as an athletic injury, treatment may be adversely affected by the delay in diagnosis or an inappropriate invasive procedure that results in extension of the tumor. Initial poor-quality radiographs and an unquestioned original diagnosis despite persistent symptoms were the most frequent causes of an erroneous diagnosis.
12852293	[Operatory strategies and information management of nursing work in the hospital context]	The paper examines the relationship between operatory strategies and information process used by nurses, in hospital context, in order to regulate their ongoing activities. As a conceptual framework, a cognitive ergonomics model was adopted, linking concepts of work regulation and representation to action. The Ergonomics Work Analyses tool (EWA) was used to collect data. The results show that the cognitive strategies used by nurses, in the decision-making process, are based on their ongoing activities as in the preparation of personal notes, aiming, in particular, at reducing their mental workload and assuring the viability of their actions.
12853231	Malignant melanoma and levodopa in Parkinson's disease: causality or coincidence?	Levodopa is the major drug used in the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease. However, levodopa continues to be 'contra-indicated' for patients with Parkinson's disease associated with malignant melanoma. Case reports have suggested that levodopa has a causal relationship with malignant melanoma due to their shared dopamine biochemical pathway. Clinical characteristics of 54 patients with both Parkinson's disease and melanoma were analyzed (43 cases from the literature and 11 from our institution). The results suggest that the occurrence of both Parkinson's disease and melanoma in these patients is coincidental rather than causal. It did not appear that the Parkinson's disease patients on levodopa therapy were predisposed to melanoma, nor did levodopa therapy appear to exaggerate melanoma if it were previously present.
12853393	Comparison of a dipstick assay for detection of Brucella-specific immunoglobulin M antibodies with other tests for serodiagnosis of human brucellosis.	A dipstick assay for the detection of Brucella-specific immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies was evaluated by studying the serological response of 133 cultures and or serologically confirmed patients with brucellosis in its different stages along with those of 34 healthy controls. As regards patients with illness less than 3 months in duration, 93.1% tested positive by the dipstick assay, a percentage similar to that obtained in the standard serum agglutination test (SAT) (92.0%), somewhat lower than that obtained by culture (100%) and higher than that obtained by IgM enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (80.5%). SAT was the most sensitive test (87.0%) for patients with illness more than 3 months in duration, followed by culture (50%), the dipstick assay (28.3%), and IgM ELISA (7.5%). The results demonstrate that the dipstick assay could well be used in the serodiagnosis of patients with acute brucellosis, as well as to identify patients with a long history of the illness. Under laboratory conditions this test has the advantage of being quick and IgM antibody-specific.
12854786	Marginal and internal fit of Cerec 3 CAD/CAM all-ceramic crowns.	PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of the occlusal convergence angle of the abutment and the computer's luting space setting on the marginal and internal fit of Cerec 3 computer-aided design/manufacturing (CAD/CAM) all-ceramic crowns. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Mandibular second premolar all-ceramic crowns were fabricated for nine different conditions using Cerec 3: all combinations of abutments with three different total occlusal convergence angles (4, 8, and 12 degrees) with three different luting space settings (10, 30, and 50 microm). The completed crowns were seated on the abutments, and the marginal gaps were measured. The internal gaps between the crowns and abutments were also measured, using test-fit silicone paste. RESULTS: When the luting space was set to 10 microm, the marginal gaps of the crowns were greater than when it was set to 30 or 50 microm. When the luting space was set to 30 or 50 microm, the marginal gaps ranged from 53 to 67 microm and were not affected by the occlusal convergence angle of the abutment. The internal gaps were within a range of 116 to 162 microm and tended to decrease as the occlusal convergence angle of the abutment decreased. CONCLUSION: When the luting space was set to 30 microm, crowns with a good fit could be fabricated on the Cerec 3 system, regardless of the occlusal convergence angle of the abutment.
12861964	Selection of the first-time dose in humans: comparison of different approaches based on interspecies scaling of clearance.	The authors describe four approaches to selecting a safe starting dose for humans in clinical drug trials based on interspecies scaling of clearance. Human clearance was predicted by scaling for 10 example drugs for which animal clearance values were available in the literature. The predicted human clearance values were then used to select the estimated starting dose in humans. These doses were then compared with the actual doses given to humans during clinical trials. All four approaches used to estimate the first-time dose in humans provided values that were within the dose range given to humans from Phases I to III. This work demonstrates that animal pharmacokinetic data can be used to estimate a suitable human starting dose, provided the data have been obtained from a dose that produces no adverse effects.
12865172	Quercetin, a natural flavonoid, attenuates vacuolar formation in the optic tract in rat chronic cerebral hypoperfusion model.	Epidemiological studies suggest that the intake of flavonoids is inversely associated with risk of cardiovascular diseases and stroke, but there is no evidence showing the effect of flavonoids on vascular dementia. Because quercetin, a natural flavonoid, is known to scavenge free radicals, we investigated whether quercetin attenuates white matter damage in rats with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, as a model of vascular dementia. Chronic hypoperfusion was induced by ligation of the bilateral carotid arteries in male Wistar rats, which received vehicle alone, 100 mg/kg quercetin, or 200 mg/kg quercetin intraperitoneally at 4-day intervals for 8 weeks after operation. Sham-operated rats were also studied. The area of vacuoles in the optic tract observed after hematoxylin and eosin staining was significantly reduced in the 200 mg/kg quercetin-treated hypoperfusion group versus the vehicle-treated hypoperfusion group (1.7+/-0.2% versus 3.9+/-0.3%; P&lt;0.05). The present results are consistent with the idea that chronic treatment with quercetin could be protective against at least a part of ischemic white matter damage.
12866224	[Classification of falling from a height]	A classification of falling from a height is suggested; it involves different factors and conditions influencing the infliction of injuries: presence or absence of a preliminary acceleration and of possible obstacles in the body flight route; landing surface properties and a height of falling etc. A study and analysis of published data and author's independent observations provided a basis for the classification.
12867298	Loss of carbon dioxide from serum samples exposed to air. Effect on blood gas parameters and strong ions.	BACKGROUND: The acid-base status of patients is frequently inferred from the concentration of total carbon dioxide in a venous blood sample. Prior studies of hemodialysis patients have reported lower values for tCO(2) when blood is shipped to a distant central laboratory compared to samples assayed at a local laboratory. Loss of tCO(2) from the sample after exposure of the blood to room air was postulated as the predominant factor. METHODS: Serum samples were assayed on-site before and at varying intervals after removing the tube stopper on an AVL OPTI Critical care Analyzer using E-Cl cuvettes. RESULTS: A rapid and progressive decline in pCO(2) and increase in pH was documented over a 2 h period. However, the change in tCO(2) during this time period was small and not significant. There were no changes in the concentrations of strong ions. CONCLUSIONS: The discrepancy in tCO(2) reported previously cannot be attributed solely to rapid loss of CO(2) unless assay conditions greatly enhance the rate of loss compared to the experimental conditions used in this study.
12873469	The dissection of the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap with complete preservation of the anterior rectus sheath.	Harvesting the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap results in defects in both the rectus abdominis muscle and the anterior rectus sheath, which may be circumvented by dissecting a perforator flap (DIEP flap) instead. However, the latter is associated with a reduction in the number of myocutaneous perforators nourishing the flap, which has been hypothesised to lead to an increased risk of partial flap failure. We present a technical modification that maintains all the feeding perforators within the flap while fully preserving the anterior rectus sheath. The anterior rectus sheath is incised along a line connecting the perforators. A muscle cuff including all the feeding perforators was raised with the flap. This technique was used in 20 consecutive patients. Nine patients underwent free TRAM flap transfers for breast reconstruction (10 flaps), and 11 patients underwent thoracic-wall reconstruction with a superiorly based pedicled flap. The median follow-up was 11 months. One patient with a pedicled flap developed a partial failure that required surgical revision; all other flaps healed spontaneously. One patient in each subset had preoperative abdominal-wall laxity that was partly corrected after surgery; no abdominal bulging or hernia occurred in the other patients. Our results suggest that the technical modification presented here may enable the surgeon to dissect a rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap with maximal perforator-related flap perfusion and minimal donor-site morbidity. An advantage over the DIEP flap is that this technique is applicable to both free and pedicled flaps.
12873712	Hypolipidemic and anti-atherogenic effects of long-term Cholestin (Monascus purpureus-fermented rice, red yeast rice) in cholesterol fed rabbits.	Long-term effects of Cholestin (Monascus purpureus rice; red yeast rice) on serum lipids and severity of atherosclerosis were examined in rabbits fed for 200 days on a semi-purified diet containing 0.25% cholesterol. Serum total cholesterol was 25 and 40% lower, respectively, in rabbits fed 0.4 or 1.35 g/kg/day of Cholestin (Monascus purpureus rice; red yeast rice) compared to controls. This treatment also lowered serum LDL cholesterol. This 200-day treatment significantly reduced serum triglycerides and atherosclerotic index (ratio of non-HDL-cholesterol to HDL-cholesterol). Although similar reductions of total, LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides were observed, a parallel group of rabbits fed lovastatin (0.0024 g/kg/day) failed to reduce the index significantly. Apolipoprotein A(1) was increased and apolipoprotein B was reduced in all treatment groups. Severity of atherosclerosis was reduced significantly in all treatment groups. The sudanophilic area of involvement was 80.6% in controls, and reduced significantly; to 30.1% on the low dose of Cholestin (Monascus purpureus rice; red yeast rice), and 17.2% on the high dose. Lovastatin reduced severity of lesions by 89% (sudanophilia) and 84% (visual). Visual grading of lesion severity showed reduction by 38% and 68%.
12875509	Neurotoxic and molecular effects of methylmercury in humans.	Mercurials are global environmental pollutants deriving from natural processes and anthropogenic activities. Most human exposure to mercury occurs through the intake of fish, shellfish, and sea mammals contaminated with methylmercury. Methylmercury is bioaccumulated and biomagnified in the aquatic food chain and reaches its highest levels in top predatory fish. The neurotoxic hazard posed by methylmercury to humans and the unique susceptibility of the developing brain have been well documented following the mass poisonings occurring in Japan and Iraq. Adult cases of methylmercury poisoning are characterized by the delayed onset of symptoms and by the focal degeneration of neurons in selected brain regions (for example, cerebral cortex and cerebellum). Why the fetus displays different neuropathological effects and a higher sensitivity to methylmercury relative to the adult is still unknown. Depending on the degree of in utero exposure, methylmercury may result in effects ranging from fetal death to subtle neurodevelopmental delays. On the basis of epidemiological studies performed in populations having moderate chronic methylmercury exposure, no definitive consensus has been reached to date on the safety level of maternal exposure during pregnancy. Among the multiple mechanisms believed to contribute to methylmercury neurotoxicity, methylmercury-induced microtubule alterations, oxidative damage, impairment of calcium homeostasis, and the potentiation of glutamatergic neurotransmission are presented in this review.
12880314	Cytotoxic diterpenes from Scoparia dulcis.	Four new labdane-derived diterpenes, iso-dulcinol (1), 4-epi-scopadulcic acid B (2), dulcidiol (4), and scopanolal (5), together with two known diterpenes, dulcinol/scopadulciol (3) and scopadiol (6), were isolated from the aerial parts of Scoparia dulcis. The structures were determined by extensive NMR studies. The crude extracts as well as the pure diterpenes showed cytotoxicity against a panel of six human stomach cancer cell lines.
12882058	Pharmacological interventions to manage coronary heart disease.	The white paper, Saving Lives: Our Healthier Nation (Department of Health, 1999), set a target to reduce the death rate from heart disease by 40 per cent for people aged under 75 by 2010. To meet this, the National Service Framework for Coronary Heart Disease (DoH, 2000) set out a plan to ensure agreed standards of care are available to everyone. One focus is to prevent illness through secondary prevention.
12892256	Insufficiency fractures of the sternum.	Insufficiency fractures occur within weakened bones that are unable to withstand the stress of every day normal activities. The spine, pelvis, and lower long-bone extremities are common sites of insufficiency fractures. Spontaneous sternal insufficiency fracture (SIF) has rarely been reported in elderly patients. To recognise a sternal insufficiency fracture is important in selecting the adequate diagnostic procedures.
12894056	Diabetes prevalence among American Indians and Alaska Natives and the overall population--United States, 1994-2002.	Diabetes affects American Indians/Alaska Natives (AI/ANs) disproportionately compared with other racial/ethnic populations and has been increasing in prevalence in AI/AN populations during the past 16 years. To examine trends in diabetes prevalence among AI/ANs and the overall U.S. population and to describe disparities among these two populations, CDC analyzed data from the Indian Health Service (IHS) and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). This report summarizes the results of that analysis, which indicate that diabetes continues to affect AI/ANs disproportionately and is becoming more common among younger populations. To combat this epidemic, knowledge and interventions from clinical trials and best-practice models should be translated to community-based prevention programs within AI/AN communities.
12898504	The reported prevalence of mandated community treatment in two Florida samples.	Questions on multiple modes of mandated community treatment (e.g. outpatient commitment, advance directive, representative payee, and special housing) were included in two studies of persons with mental illness, using a mail survey of Medicaid enrollees receiving SSI and interviews conducted as part of an evaluation of a specialty mental health court. Results indicate that the majority of individuals reported no experience with any forms of mandated community treatment. However, respondents from the two samples who had been subject to community mandates reported comparatively similar experiences. Additional studies of the prevalence of mandated community treatment are necessary to garner expanded information regarding the use of such mandates. In addition, future studies must assure that the language employed to query individuals regarding such mandates is clearly understood by respondents, as certain terms (e.g. &quot;outpatient commitment&quot;) may mean different things to different respondents.
12900913	Somatosensation in the superior colliculus of the star-nosed mole.	The superior colliculus (or optic tectum in nonmammals) plays a critical role in the visual system and is essential for integrating sensory inputs to guide eye and head movements. However, what is the role of the superior colliculus (SC) in species that depend almost exclusively on touch? In this study we examined the SC of the star-nosed mole, a subterranean mammal that, instead of using vision, explores its environment using its tactile star. The star acts like a mechanosensory eye with a central tactile fovea that is constantly shifted in a saccadic manner. Multiunit microelectrode recordings were used to determine the topography and receptive field organization of somatosensory inputs to the SC and to test for visual and auditory responses. Here we report an SC dominated by somatosensory inputs in which neurons in all layers responded to mechanosensory stimulation, forming a topographic representation of contralateral body dominated by the mechanosensory star. Receptive fields were large, and appendage representations overlapped, suggesting that the SC may use a distributed, population code to guide the saccadic movements of the mole's touch fovea. No auditory or visual responses were recorded from the SC, although neurons in the neighboring inferior colliculus responded to auditory stimuli. Layers IVb-VII were identified, and a layer superficial to IVb contained neurons that responded to somatosensory stimulation, suggesting that there are unique patterns of afferents in the star-nosed mole's SC.
12901394	Has bioterrorism preparedness improved public health?	In anticipation of future terrorist attacks, the nation has been focused on emergency preparedness, including threats to public health and the ability of communities to respond to them. The Center for Studying Health System Change's (HSC) recent site visits to 12 nationally representative communities found early benefits to public health due to heightened attention to bioterrorism preparedness: more visibility and credibility for public health, stronger public health infrastructure and improved communication and coordination across sectors. Modest negative effects included staff diversions and delays in some program implementation. As the site visits continued from fall 2002 into 2003, concerns grew that the federal smallpox vaccination program was diverting resources from such traditional public health activities as routine immunizations, health promotion and screening.
12903733	Modification of porous aminopropyl-silicate microcapsule membrane by electrically-bonded external anionic polymers.	Biocompatibility and permeability of a microcapsule membrane governs the function of a microcapsule-shaped bioartificial pancreas. We have previously developed an alginate/sol-gel-synthesized aminopropyl-silicate/alginate microcapsule (Alg/AS/Alg), which had insufficient biocompatibility. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the biocompatibility could improve by modifying the external surface with other anionic polymers and to investigate an influence of the modification on the permeability of the membrane. Four kinds of anionic polymers, poly(oxyethylene)diglycolic acid (3 kDa), heparin (15 kDa), Alg (54 kDa) and carboxymethylcellulose (CMC, 60 kDa) were used as the external anionic polymers. The heparin-bonded gel bead had the largest resistance to the diffusion of small molecules. The molecular mass cut-off point of 150 kDa required for immunoisolation was maintained for all anionic polymers. Cellular overgrowth to the implanted islet-enclosing microcapsule, a sign of insufficient biocompatibility, was suppressed by altering the external surface material from Alg to CMC. These results suggest that the biocompatibility of the Alg/AS/anionic polymer membrane can be improved by using a biocompatible anionic polymer. At the same time, it is suggested the influence on the permeability has to be investigated to develop an optimal microcapsule for bioartificial pancreas.
12903834	Conditional gene targeting.	Precise chromosomal alterations can be made in restricted tissues at chosen times in the living experimental animal. The engineering of such conditional systems has been successfully tackled in transgenic mice during the last decade. This review focuses on how several different genetic regulatory elements from lower organisms can be applied in combination to achieve this goal.
12905848	[A technique of continuous medical image digital restoration]	OBJECTIVE: To set up a new technique of continuous medical image digital restoration for electronic record management. METHODS: According to Freeman's chain-code principle, 92 fetal cardiotocography were scanned, thinned, trailed, and chain-coded by computer system. RESULTS: 92 paper-recorded cardiotocography, were transformed to digital data and saved by computer, 23 parameters were produced, which could be used in further study. CONCLUSION: Capacity of a restoring instrument can be greatly saved since the using of digitalized restoration, so that more useful data can be stored in doctor's workstation. Digitalized data can be much easier used in electronic record management, for convenient studies research.
12906119	Electrophysiological analysis of visual function in mutant mice.	The mouse has become a key animal model for ocular research. This situation reflects the fact that genes implicated in human retinal disorders or in mammalian retinal function may be readily manipulated in the mouse. Visual electrophysiology provides a means to examine retinal function in mutant mice, and stimulation and recording protocols have been developed that allow the activity of many classes of retinal neurons to be examined and which take into account unique features of the mouse retina. Here, we review the mouse visual electrophysiology literature, covering techniques used to record the mouse electroretinogram and visual evoked potential, and how these have been applied to characterize the functional implications of gene mutation or manipulation in the mouse retina.
12910360	MELAS: clinical phenotype and morphological brain abnormalities.	We describe the clinical and neuropathological findings of three unrelated autopsy cases of MELAS harboring the A3243G transition in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Using immunohistochemical techniques, we studied the expression of several subunits of the respiratory chain in various brain regions from the same cases. In all three cases there was a reduced immunocytochemical staining for mtDNA-encoded subunits of the respiratory chain, confirming the presence of a defective mitochondrial protein synthesis in this disease. Mitochondrial abnormalities were mostly confined to multiple areas of different size and shape, in agreement with the focal character of the brain pathology in MELAS, and were most prominent in the cerebral cortex, providing a morphological contribution to the explanation of the cognitive regression of the patients. Immunoreactivity for mtDNA-encoded subunits was reduced in the walls of many pial and intracerebral arterioles of different brain regions but there was no clear correlation between territories of affected vessels and distribution of the histological and immunohistochemical lesions. Cerebral focal lesions in MELAS might have a metabolic nature and several pathogenetic mechanisms might be involved in the genesis of stroke-like episodes when there is a local increased ATP demand.
12913726	Asian race and impact on outcomes after radical radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer.	PURPOSE: We compared survival outcomes in patients of Asian descent treated with curative intent radiation therapy for prostate cancer with that in the nonAsian population in British Columbia, Canada. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Since 1994, 1,872 men treated with curative intent radiotherapy for prostate cancer have been followed prospectively at our provincial institution, where cancer care delivery is coordinated for the province of British Columbia. Patients are treated uniformly based on provincial policies and guidelines. Patients were divided into 63 Asian (3.6%) and 1,804 nonAsian (96.4%) patients by surname with Asian names checked by telephone contact. Three risk groups were defined based on pretreatment prostate specific antigen, biopsy Gleason score and clinical T staging. For the whole cohort and each risk group survival was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and comparisons were made between the Asian and nonAsian populations. RESULTS: The mean age of Asian and nonAsian men was 71.5 and 71 years, respectively. Median prostate specific antigen was 11.4 and 10 ng/ml, respectively (p = 0.7). Median Gleason score was 7 for Asian patients and 6 for nonAsian patients (p = 0.002). There were twice the percentage of Asian patients with Gleason scores 8 or greater than nonAsian (26.5% vs 13.8%, p = 0.003). More Asian patients had stage 3 or 4 disease than nonAsian (44.8% vs 34.9%, p = 0.095). A greater proportion of Asian patients were classified as being at high risk than the nonAsian population (60.3% vs 47.6%, p = 0.04). For the entire cohort, and the low, intermediate and high risk groups there were no differences in time to first failure, or cause specific or overall survival for Asian vs nonAsian men. CONCLUSIONS: A greater proportion of patients of Asian descent present with high risk prostate cancer than nonAsian patients, which could be due to intrinsic biological differences and/or differences in diagnostic patterns. Survival outcomes after radiotherapy are the same for the 2 populations.
12918544	Haemostasis and thrombosis: new developments in treatment strategies.	The pivotal studies from 2002 in the field of clinical haemostasis and thrombosis were all about the evaluation of existing or novel antiplatelet and anticoagulant strategies. Most of the new agents are specifically targeted to haemostatic pathways, which have recently been shown to be of importance in vivo and usually have a higher efficacy in comparison with currently available treatment strategies. In some cases this also results in a (relatively modest) increase in the risk of bleeding. The clinical use of the new compounds is often much more convenient than that of the currently available antithrombotic modalities.
12927228	Depressor effect on blood pressure and flow elicited by electroacupuncture in normal subjects.	To clarify the effect of electroacupuncture (Ea) on the activity of the cardiovascular system in normal individuals, hemodynamic parameters including arterial blood pressure (BP), finger blood flow (FBF) and heart rate (HR) as well as paravertebral temperature (PVT) were non-invasively recorded under Ea stimulation. Surface stimulation electrode was placed on the Hoku point (Li-4). Square wave pulses (0.05 ms) were applied from a stimulator with a stimulation frequency of 2 Hz (3 min). The stimulation intensity was five times of sensory threshold. BP and FBF were decreased (68.5+/-6.0%, P&lt;0.01 and 96.8+/-1.1%, P&lt;0.01 of control, respectively, n=7) while HR and PVT were increased significantly (115.0+/-5.1 of control, P&lt;0.05 and 0.054+/-0.004 degree C, P&lt;0.01, respectively, n=7) during Ea treatment. The results suggested an inhibition in sympathetic outflow, which induced vasodilatation of systemic arteriole and decrease in BP and FBF were elicited by Ea stimulation.
12931590	[Prosthetic valve endocarditis after aortic valve replacement with freestyle stentless xenograft]	A 52-year-old man underwent aortic valve replacement with freestyle stentless xenograft, using subcoronary technique for active infective endocarditis in June, 2001. Eighteen month later he had late prosthetic valve endocarditis associated with aortic annular abscess due to Staphylococcus epidermidis infection. The abscess was debrided and gelatin-resorcin-formalin glue (GRF glue) was injected into the abscess cavity. Abscess cavity was closed with continuous running suture of 3-0 polypropylene stitches. Finally the aortic valve was replaced with ATS mechanical valve (20 mmAP). After administration of vancomycin and gentamicin for 4 weeks, he discharged on 57th postoperative day in good condition. We strongly suggest that GRF glue is essential to close the aortic annular abscess of combined with aortic regurgitation due to active infective endocarditis.
12932164	Can intrasac pressure monitoring reliably predict failure of endovascular aneurysm repair?	PURPOSE: To determine if pressure measured at a single location within aneurysm sac thrombus accurately reflects the force applied to the aneurysm wall and the risk of rupture by examining (1) if pressure is distributed uniformly within aneurysm thrombus, (2) the pressure transmission through aneurysm thrombus, and (3) the microstructural basis for pressure transmission. METHODS: Pressure within aneurysm thrombus was measured by direct puncture through the aneurysm wall at 121 sites in 26 patients during open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. Measurements were taken prior to cross clamping and compared with intrasac pressure measured at 30 sites in 6 patients without aneurysm thrombus (controls). Transmission of pressure through aneurysm thrombus was further examined ex vivo by subjecting fresh thrombus to a pressure gradient in a custom-made pressure cell. Pressure transmission was correlated with matrix density as determined by light microscopy and image analysis. RESULTS: Mean pressure within aneurysm thrombus was higher than mean systemic pressure in 11 patients, lower in 1, and identical in 9. In 5 patients, the pressure was greater than systemic in some areas of the thrombus but less in others. Sac pressure was identical to systemic pressure at all sites in the controls. In 12 thrombus specimens (6 patients) examined in the pressure cell, pressure transmission varied significantly between specimens, correlating directly with matrix density (R(2)=0.747, p=0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Pressure transmission through aneurysm thrombus is variable and depends upon the microstructure of the thrombus. Pressure measured at a single location may not, therefore, accurately reflect the pressure acting on the aneurysm wall.
12935126	Shear viscosity of liquid mixtures: mass dependence.	The expressions for zeroth, second, and fourth sum rules of the transverse stress autocorrelation function of a two-component fluid have been derived. These sum rules and Mori's memory function formalism have been used to study the shear viscosity of Ar-Kr and isotopic mixtures. It has been found that the theoretical result is in good agreement with the computer simulation result for the Ar-Kr mixture. The mass dependence of shear viscosity for different mole fractions shows that deviation from ideal linear model comes even from the mass difference in two species of the fluid mixture. At higher mass ratio, shear viscosity of the mixture is not explained by any of the empirical models.
12935641	An autopsy case of miliary tuberculosis in a young adult.	A 23-year-old woman who had worked as a hostess at a nightclub was found dead in her house. The cause of death was diagnosed as miliary tuberculosis from the findings of medico-legal autopsy. Recently, tuberculosis (TB) has re-emerged as a health problem due to recurrence in the aged, and infections among health care workers and young adults like the present case. Currently, the common source of TB transmission is recurrence in the aged, but global migration, difficulty to achieve permanent immunity by BCG vaccination, immunodeficiency such as HIV infection, and drug abuse and/or sexual intercourse are also thought to be associated with tuberculosis in young adults. Forensic pathologists should be aware of such connections with TB, and should take care not to become mediators of TB infections.
12944993	Prostate cancer detection using power Doppler imaging.	Various preliminary and reassessment articles focusing on power Doppler imaging to detect prostate cancer have studied the potential of this powerful tool. By identifying abnormal vascular flow, power Doppler imaging can enhance prostate cancer detection. However, according to recent articles, the applications for biopsy-guided power Doppler imaging targeting the intermediate serum prostate-specific antigen range has some limitations. Three-dimensional reconstruction of power Doppler imaging is a promising technique to improve cancer detection.
12945732	Hyperplasia of myoepithelial cells expressing calponin during atrophy of the rat parotid gland induced by duct ligation.	The number and location of myoepithelial cells in the rat parotid gland submitted to surgical ligation of its main excretory duct were studied through immunohistochemical labelling for calponin. These cells were labelled by the streptavidin-biotin method using anti-calponin primary antibody, and their number was determined during each step of glandular atrophy, i.e., at time zero (control) and 1, 7, 15, 21, 30 and 60 days after ligation. Morphological analysis showed a gradual decrease and fibrosis of the glandular lobules accompanied by disappearance of the acini and the occurrence of duct-like structures. The expression of calponin was observed in all specimens analysed, being restricted to myoepithelial cells. Labelling revealed the distribution of myoepithelial cells around the acini and intercalated ducts in the control group and around duct-like structures later during the course of atrophy. Quantitative analysis demonstrated significant increase in the number of myoepithelial cells up to day 7 post-ligation, followed by gradual increases which, however, were not statistically significant. These results suggest that myoepithelial cells proliferate intensely up to day 7 post-ligation, an event that coincides with a higher rate of disappearance of acinar cells. After this period, the elevatednumber of cells observed at the end of the previous period is maintained.
12954804	Investigation of the effects of naratriptan, rizatriptan, and sumatriptan on jugular venous oxygen saturation in anesthetized pigs: implications for their mechanism of acute antimigraine action.	The effects of naratriptan, rizatriptan, and sumatriptan on arteriovenous oxygen saturation difference and carotid hemodynamics were compared in the anesthetized pig. Oxygen and carbon dioxide partial pressures in systemic arterial and jugular venous blood as well as hemoglobin oxygen saturation were determined by conventional blood gas analysis. Vehicle (n = 19) or naratriptan, rizatriptan, or sumatriptan (0.63, 2.5, 10, 40, 160, 630, and 2,500 microg/kg i.v.; n = 7/group) were infused cumulatively. In naratriptan-, rizatriptan-, and sumatriptan-treated animals, jugular venous oxygen saturation decreased dose dependently (geometric mean ED50 values of 3.1, 17.9, and 16.0 microg/kg, respectively) concomitantly with increases in carotid vascular resistance. Rizatriptan significantly and dose dependently, from 160 microg/kg, increased PvCO2 (P &lt; 0.05 versus vehicle). Naratriptan and sumatriptan also tended to increase PvCO2 albeit nonstatistically significantly. All three triptans consistently evoked quantitatively similar carotid vasoconstriction, whereas decreases in jugular venous oxygen saturation (VOS) and increases in PvCO2 had different magnitudes and occurred only in around one-half of the animals studied. Maximal variations in PvCO2 were found to correlate highly with those in PvO2 (P = 0.002), but maximal variations in carotid resistance failed to correlate with those in PvCO2 (P = 0.76) or PvO2 (P = 0.28). The results demonstrate that the triptans investigated robustly produced carotid vasoconstriction, but elicited less consistent decreases in VOS and increases in jugular PvCO2, possibly suggestive of distinct mechanisms. Collectively, the data suggest that triptan-induced increases in arteriovenous oxygen saturation difference and carbon dioxide partial pressure in venous blood draining the head are class effects.
12956229	Patient-physician e-mail: passion or fashion?	This article surveys the nature, prevalence, and risks and benefits of patient-physician e-mail as a prelude to critically evaluating what will be required for it to become a truly transformational technology. Diverse materials from both the popular press and various clinical domains are consulted in order to appraise patient-physician e-mail's efficacy in different contexts and among different patient and physician users. Early evidence that patient-physician e-mail has lasting power includes its use in niche clinical applications, appearance of unsolicited patient e-mail, historical patterns of medical technology adoption, and increasing use of the Internet in general. Patient-physician e-mail will become genuinely transformational if it affirmatively improves the patient-physician encounter, contributes to better clinical outcomes, makes patient-physician communication more convenient for both parties, demonstrably transcends existing reimbursement and medicolegal concerns, and promotes patient empowerment. Like all technologies, use and misuse of patient-physician e-mail will determine whether its possibilities will become realities.
12957915	Does virus-induced lysis contribute significantly to bacterial mortality in the oxygenated sediment layer of shallow oxbow lakes?	Despite the recognition that viruses are ubiquitous components of aquatic ecosystems, the number of studies on viral abundance and the ecological role of viruses in sediments is scarce. In this investigation, the interactions between viruses and bacteria were studied in the oxygenated silty sediment layer of a mesotrophic oxbow lake. A long-term study (13 months) and a diel study revealed that viruses are a numerically important and dynamic component of the microbial community. The abundance and decay rates ranged from 4.3 x 10(9) to 7.2 x 10(9) particles ml of wet sediment(-1) and from undetectable to 22.2 x 10(7) particles ml(-1) h(-1), respectively, and on average the values were 2 orders of magnitude higher than the values for the overlying water. In contrast to our expectations, viruses did not contribute significantly to the bacterial mortality in the sediment, since on average only 6% (range, 0 to 25%) of the bacterial secondary production was controlled by viruses. The low impact of viruses on the bacterial community may be associated with the quantitatively low viral burden that benthic bacteria have to cope with compared to the viral burden with which bacterial assemblages in the water column are confronted. The virus-to-bacterium ratio of the sediment varied between 0.9 and 3.2, compared to a range of 5.0 to 12.4 obtained for the water column. We speculate that despite high numbers of potential hosts, the possibility of encountering a host cell is limited by the physical conditions in the sediment, which is therefore not a favorable environment for viral proliferation. Our data suggest that viruses do not play an important role in the processing and transfer of bacterial carbon in the oxygenated sediment layer of the environment investigated.
12959260	Synthesis and properties of 2H-2-(4-substituted -1-piperazinylalkyl)-4,6-dimethyl-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroisothiazolo [5,4-b] pyridines.	The preparation of a number of derivatives of 2H-4,6-dimethyl-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroisothiazolo [5,4-b] pyridine (1) containing 4-methyl(phenyl, heteroaryl)-1-piperazinylalkyl moiety by two routes has been described. Preliminary results of pharmacological screening of compounds synthesized showed antipsychotic activity of 2H-2-13-(4-phenyl-1-piperazinyl)propyl-3-oxo-2,3-dihydroisothiazolo [5.4-b] pyridine (4f).
12961869	[FTIR studies of L-threonic acid and its metal compounds]	Highly pure solid compounds, such as L-threonic acid, calcium L-threonate, magnesium L-threonate, manganese L-threonate, cobalt L-threonate, nickel L-theronate, and zinc L-threonate, were prepared, wherein, L-threonic acid was obtained from calcium L-threonate by strong acid type ion exchange process, calcium L-threonate or zinc L-threonate was prepared by alcohol extracting the concentrated filter liquor of the reaction of Vc, H2O2 and CaCO3 or ZnCO3, the reminder of the compounds were synthesized using alcohol extracting the concentrated solution derived from the reaction of L-threonic acid solution, prepared by double decomposition reaction of calcium L-threonate with oxalic acid, and superfluous MgO, MnCO3, Co2(OH)2CO3 and Ni2(OH)2CO3. The compositions of the compounds were determined by chemical and elemental analysis, and these compounds have the formula M(C4H7O5)2.nH2O (M = Ca, Zn, n = 0; M = Mg, Mn, Co, n = 1; M = Ni, n = 2). The purity of the compounds was 99.60% by HPLC. The IR spectra of the complexes were similar with each other but different from that of L-threonic acid. The characteristic absorption peaks of water were not observed in those of calcium L-threonate or zinc L-threonate, which showed that the molecule of water was not involved in the complexes. Further analyses indicate that M2+ in the compounds coordinated to oxygen atom of the carboxy group, while the proton of the carboxyl group was dissociated and the proton belonging to hydroxyl was not M2+ coordinated to L-threonic acid through the sp3 hybrizated fashion. It was assumed that the coordination number of M2+ was 4.
14500123	Evidence for in vitro falsely-primed cDNAs that prevent specific detection of virus negative strand RNAs in dengue-infected cells: improvement by tagged RT-PCR.	The identification of cell types replicating dengue viruses is an important step towards the understanding of the pathophysiology of dengue severe forms. Since the detection of negative strand viral RNAs is the more reliable marker of active replication for single-strand positive sense RNA viruses, we reassessed the specificity of RT-PCR assays already developed to detect dengue negative strand RNAs. Studying mammalian Vero cells infected by a dengue-2 strain, it was shown that falsely-primed cDNAs are generated in vitro during the reverse transcription step and are amplified subsequently by PCR. Since this may compromise the specificity of existing RT-PCR systems, we developed a tagged RT-PCR assay and addressed the role of some critical factors in such a system. Optimization of the negative strand-specific tagged RT-PCR allowed to resolve the problems due to the PCR amplification of falsely-primed cDNAs. Using this assay it was possible to detect specifically negative strand RNAs as soon as 3h after Vero cells have been exposed to the dengue-2 strain and we showed that this system is highly specific. Thus, the present dengue negative strand-specific tagged RT-PCR assay may help to reassess viral replication in the context of dengue pathophysiology.
14501657	Incidence and severity of vesicoureteral reflux in children related to age, gender, race and diagnosis.	PURPOSE: We determine if the incidence and grade of vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) differs in children based on age, race and gender, and if the incidence and severity of VUR are related to race in girls younger than 7 years presenting for evaluation after urinary tract infection (UTI). MATERIALS AND METHODS: The records of all children who underwent a voiding cystourethrogram or radionuclide cystogram between 1993 and 2001 were retrospectively reviewed. Age, gender, race, clinical indication and highest grade of VUR were recorded for the first voiding cystourethrogram or radionuclide cystogram. Frequency tables and logistic regression were conducted to correlate demographics to incidence and severity of VUR. RESULTS: A total of 15,504 patients were included in the analysis. Overall, black children were a third as likely as white children (p &lt;0.0001) and females were twice as likely as males (p &lt;0.0001) to have VUR. Compared to children 0 to 2 years old, the occurrence of reflux was 0.5 times as likely in those 3 to 6 years old (p &lt;0.0001), 0.3 times as likely in those 7 to 11 years old (p &lt;0.0001) and 0.15 times as likely in those 12 to 21 years old (p &lt;0.0001). When analyzing children with UTI, results were similar. Of the patients with VUR 65% were younger than 7 years. The incidence of VUR in black girls younger than 7 years with a diagnosis of UTI was less than 10% compared to white girls, and no black girl had high grade reflux. In young children referred for UTI the incidence and severity of VUR in black patients were significantly lower than those of white girls. CONCLUSIONS: This study validates previous observations regarding the low incidence of VUR in black children.
14503073	The case for bar coding: better information, better care--and better business.	Bar coding, pervasive in almost all other industries, has been slow to infiltrate the healthcare setting. for years, disparate systems, a lack of standardization, and an absence of significant market incentives have hindered healthcare providers, IT vendors, and drug manufacturers alike in adopting bar coding technology. But thanks to a proposed FDA rule issued last Spring, bar coding is is edging its way to the top of many IT priority lists. By mid-2004, the final rule should be passed, which will require all drugmakers to bar code prescription drug products at the unit dose level. The bar code will identify the drug, manufacture, strength of the medication, and dosage.
14504058	Limited-stage mantle-cell lymphoma.	BACKGROUND: Mantle-cell lymphoma (MCL) is known to have a poor outcome, however, most patients present with advanced-stage disease. Little information is available on limited-stage MCL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed clinicopathological information on all patients with limited-stage MCL seen at the British Columbia Cancer Agency since 1984. RESULTS: Twenty-six patients had low bulk (&lt;10 cm) stage IA (12 patients) or IIA (14 patients) MCL. Initial therapy was involved-field radiation therapy (RT) with or without chemotherapy (CT), 17 patients; CT alone or observation, nine patients. Fifteen patients are alive at a median follow-up of 72 months (range 14-194). Progression-free survival (PFS) at 2 and 5 years was 65% and 46%, and overall survival (OS) 86% and 70%, respectively. Five patients surviving beyond 8 years. Only age and initial use of RT significantly affected PFS. Five-year PFS for patients &lt;60 years of age was 83%, compared with 39% for those aged >/= 60 years, P = 0.04. Patients receiving RT with or without CT (n = 17), had a 5-year PFS of 68%, compared with 11% for those not receiving RT (n = 9, P = 0.002). Receiving RT eliminated the impact of age on PFS (with RT the 5-year PFS was 83% for those aged &lt;60 years and 57% for those >/= 60 years, P = 0.17). Although OS for the whole group was 53% at 6 years, it was 71% for those initially treated with RT, but only 25% for those not given RT (P = 0.13). CONCLUSION: In our experience, patients with limited-stage MCL had an improved PFS when treated with regimens including RT, with a trend towards improved OS. These results suggest a potentially important role for RT in limited-stage MCL.
14507363	Involvement of bacterial migration in the development of complex multicellular structures in Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms.	Detailed knowledge of the developmental process from single cells scattered on a surface to complex multicellular biofilm structures is essential in order to create strategies to control biofilm development. In order to study bacterial migration patterns during Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm development, we have performed an investigation with time-lapse confocal laser scanning microscopy of biofilms formed by various combinations of colour-coded P. aeruginosa wild type and motility mutants. We show that mushroom-shaped multicellular structures in P. aeruginosa biofilms can form in a sequential process involving a non-motile bacterial subpopulation and a migrating bacterial subpopulation. The non-motile bacteria form the mushroom stalks by growth in certain foci of the biofilm. The migrating bacteria form the mushroom caps by climbing the stalks and aggregating on the tops in a process which is driven by type-IV pili. These results lead to a new model for biofilm formation by P. aeruginosa.
14507716	Electrokinetic stretching of tethered DNA.	During electrophoretic separations of DNA in a sieving medium, DNA molecules stretch from a compact coil into elongated conformations when encountering an obstacle and relax back to a coil upon release from the obstacle. These stretching dynamics are thought to play an important role in the separation mechanism. In this article we describe a silicon microfabricated device to measure the stretching of tethered DNA in electric fields. Upon application of an electric field, electro-osmosis generates bulk fluid flow in the device, and a protocol for eliminating this flow by attaching a polymer brush to all silicon oxide surfaces is shown to be effective. Data on the steady stretching of DNA in constant electric fields is presented. The data corroborate the approximate theory of hydrodynamic equivalence, indicating that DNA is not free-draining in the presence of both electric and nonelectric forces. Finally, these data provide the first quantitative test of a Stigter and Bustamante's detailed theory of electrophoretic stretching of DNA without adjustable parameters. The agreement between theory and experiment is good.
14507936	A half century of longitudinal methods in social gerontology: evidence of change in the journal.	OBJECTIVES: With a focus on the use of longitudinal data, this study reviews trends in the quantitative analysis of social science data on aging during the past half century. METHODS: A content analysis was performed on 227 articles from 12 volumes that were systematically sampled from the Journal of Gerontology: Social Sciences to examine change in the type of data and quantitative methods used (1946-2000). RESULTS: Cross-sectional analysis remains the single most frequent type of study, but the publication of analyses based on longitudinal panel data increased appreciably over the five decades studied. There was little increase in the use of repeated cross-sectional analysis. DISCUSSION: Despite the widespread use of cross-sectional analysis, interest in data with more than one occasion of measurement has grown among social scientists who are reviewing for and publishing in the JOURNAL. Given the longitudinal data now available, social science research on aging should give more explicit attention to three issues: attrition, change in repeated measures of independent variables, and models to account for many waves of data.
14513952	Aerodynamic and acoustical measures of speech, operatic, and Broadway vocal styles in a professional female singer.	Understanding how the voice is used in different styles of singing is commonly based on intuitive descriptions offered by performers who are proficient in only one style. Such descriptions are debatable, lack reproducibility, and lack scientifically derived explanations of the characteristics. We undertook acoustic and aerodynamic analyses of a female subject with professional experience in both operatic and Broadway styles of singing, who sang examples in these two styles. How representative the examples are of the respective styles was investigated by means of a listening test. Further, as a reference point, we compared the styles with her speech. Variation in styles associated with pitch and vocal loudness was investigated for various parameters: subglottal pressure, closed quotient, glottal leakage, H1-H2 difference (the level difference between the two lowest partials of the source spectrum), and glottal compliance (the ratio between the air volume displaced in a glottal pulse and the subglottal pressure). Formant frequencies, long-term-average spectrum, and vibrato characteristics were also studied. Characteristics of operatic style emerge as distinctly different from Broadway style, the latter being more similar to speaking.
14516735	Functional imaging of airway narrowing.	The report will focus on studies that illustrate how high resolution computed tomography can be used to provide new insights into airway and lung function, that cannot be obtained with any other methodology in humans or animal models. In one series of experiments, we have clearly demonstrated that even large cartilaginous airways are capable of complete closure in vivo. These unequivocal in vivo results invalidate the ubiquitous concept that there is a limit to airway narrowing in normal subjects. In another series of experiments, we have investigated potential reasons why asthmatic subjects might show airway constriction following deep inspiration instead of the normal dilation. Experimental results show that a constrictor response to deep inspiration can be generated in normal airways simply by minimizing tidal stresses. The absence of these normal rhythmic stresses alters the smooth muscle throughout the airway tree, such that subsequent large stresses lead to a further constriction. These results also offer a possible mechanism by which the response to deep inspiration is altered in asthmatic subjects. By allowing accurate measurement of the size of individual airways, computed tomography with modern commercially available scanners thus provides a unique opportunity to evaluate specific hypotheses regarding mechanisms underlying lung disease.
14517056	Production and release of infectious hepatitis C virus from human liver cell cultures in the three-dimensional radial-flow bioreactor.	Lack of efficient culture systems for hepatitis C virus (HCV) has been a major obstacle in HCV research. Human liver cells grown in a three-dimensional radial-flow bioreactor were successfully infected following inoculation with plasma from an HCV carrier. Subsequent detection of increased HCV RNA suggested viral replication. Furthermore, transfection of HCV RNA transcribed from full-length cDNA also resulted in the production and release of HCV virions into supernatant. Infectivity was shown by successful secondary passage to a new culture. Introduction of mutations in RNA helicase and polymerase regions of HCV cDNA abolished virus replication, indicating that reverse genetics of this system is possible. The ability to replicate and detect the extracellular release of HCV might provide clues with regard to the persistent nature of HCV infection. It will also accelerate research into the pathogenicity of HCV, as well as the development of prophylactic agents and new therapy.
14518158	[ECMO--extra corporeal membrane oxygenation as a bridge to recovery, following surgery for complex congenital cardiac anomalies, in children and neonates]	BACKGROUND: ECMO is used as a method for mechanical life support in the face of extreme cardiopulmonary failure. Most children and neonates that require ECMO do so because of respiratory failure unresponsive to conventional supportive measures. Less then 16% of the patients require ECMO support for the failing heart. The Sheba Medical Center, is one of two centers in Israel authorized by the Ministry of Health to use ECMO technique and is the only center that also performs pediatric cardiac surgery. OBJECTIVES: To present our experience with ECMO support in patients with low cardiac output syndromes following open-heart surgery for congenital cardiac anomalies as compared to international experience. METHODS: The charts of all pediatric and neonatal patients requiring ECMO support following cardiac surgery for complex congenital cardiac anomalies were reviewed. Patient and ECMO characteristics were compared, as well as the success rates. RESULTS: Between 1995 and 2001, sixteen neonates and children were treated at our institution by ECMO for low cardiac output syndromes following heart surgery. Twelve were operated on at our institution, and four were referred to the ECMO unit of our pediatric critical care ward from other hospitals. ECMO support resulted in full recovery in seven of the sixteen patients, cardiac function returned to normal and the patients were discharged home in good condition, nine patients died. CONCLUSIONS: Our experience is in accord with the reported international experience. Following cardiac surgery for congenital cardiac anomalies, low cardiac output, unresponsive to maximal conventional medical support, is a rare but life threatening condition. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation serves as a rescue mechanical support for these patients and due to improved and sophisticated intensive care, can serve as a bridge to recovery. The availability of ECMO provides an extra margin of safety in the very complex cases of open-heart surgery.
14518584	Acute hospital discharges of patients with major disability: a review of patients admitted to a young disabled unit.	The aim of this study was to describe a young disabled unit (YDU). These units are increasingly required to serve the needs of people with severe disabilities. Forty-two patients were included in the study; the age range was 22 to 61 years. Traumatic brain injury was the most common diagnosis on admission (13), followed by sub-arachnoid haemorrhage and non-haemorrhagic stroke (11) and non-traumatic brain injury (7). For people with severe acquired brain injuries, the course of neurological recovery often exceeds two years. The prognosis made in the acute hospital setting may need to be revised in the YDU when input from a multidisciplinary rehabilitation team enables patients to further their independence. YDUs need to have their own multidisciplinary team and sessional support from specialists in rehabilitation medicine to provide slow-stream rehabilitation. It is necessary to adequately resource all services for disabled people including inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation services, community services and YDUs. Step-down services without specialised neurological rehabilitation input may fail to achieve the full potential for patients transferred out of acute hospitals.
14521418	S-acyl-2-thioethyl phosphoramidate diester derivatives as mononucleotide prodrugs.	The synthesis and in vitro anti-HIV activity of phosphoramidate diester derivatives of 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine (AZT) bearing one S-pivaloyl-2-thioethyl (tBuSATE) group and various amino residues are reported. These compounds were obtained from an H-phosphonate strategy using an amidative oxidation step. Most of these derivatives appeared to inhibit HIV-1 replication, with EC(50) values at micromolar concentration in thymidine kinase-deficient (TK-) cells, revealing a less restrictive intracellular decomposition process than previously reported for other phosphoramidate prodrugs. The proposed decomposition pathway of this new series of mixed pronucleotides may successively involve an esterase and a phosphoramidase hydrolysis.
14523980	Antisense imaging: and miles to go before we sleep?	Labeled oligonucleotide analogues for antisense imaging of messenger RNA (mRNA) have great potential for detection of endogenous gene expression in vivo. Successful antisense imaging may be useful for detecting cellular gene expression patterns and early molecular changes in disease. Conclusive demonstration of this technique has been hindered by formidable challenges in surmounting biological barriers and detecting low concentrations of target mRNA. Recent advances in the development of novel antisense molecules, high specific activity radiolabeling chemistry, sophisticated drug targeting technology, and complementary molecular imaging modalities make it quite possible that true antisense imaging will be realized in the near future.
14526149	High prevalence of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency in diabetes mellitus. A multicenter study screening fecal elastase 1 concentrations in 1,021 diabetic patients.	BACKGROUND: There have been numerous reports on pancreatic exocrine dysfunction in diabetes mellitus using either direct or indirect function tests. The measurement of fecal elastase 1 concentrations (FEC) has been used as a screening tool for exocrine pancreatic disease in different patient groups indicating a high prevalence of exocrine dysfunction in diabetic populations. In this study we had the opportunity to study more than 1,000 diabetic patients to confirm recent observations in smaller populations. METHODS: FEC were measured by ELISA in 323 patients with type 1 and 697 type 2 diabetes mellitus. Subjects with a history of alcohol abuse, gastrointestinal surgery, cancer or inflammatory diseases were not included. Diabetes history and clinical data were recorded using a standard case report form. FINDINGS: 1,021 patients (334 female, 687 male; mean age 50 years; mean diabetes duration 11 years; mean age at onset of diabetes 39 years) were studied. FEC was normal (>200 microg/g) in 59.3% and severely reduced (&lt;100 microg/g) in 22.9%. There were significant differences between type 1 and type 2 patients as well as between insulin-treated and non-insulin-treated patients. Furthermore, there were weak associations between FEC and diabetes duration, age at onset of diabetes and body mass index, respectively. INTERPRETATION: We could confirm that both type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients show pathological exocrine function in high prevalence. Exocrine insufficiency seems to be correlated to early onset of endocrine failure, long-lasting diabetes mellitus and low body mass index levels.
14526306	Meconium-stained amniotic fluid is associated with puerperal infections.	OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether meconium-stained amniotic fluid is associated with puerperal infection and whether the quality of the meconium is further associated with this risk. STUDY DESIGN: We designed a retrospective cohort study of all deliveries beyond 37 weeks gestational age from 1992 to 2002 at a single community hospital. Data were collected on rates of chorioamnionitis, endomyometritis, quality of amniotic fluid, and length of labor and analyzed with bivariate and multivariate analyses. RESULTS: We found that, among the 43,200 women who were delivered at term, 18.9% of the women had meconium staining (8.8% thin, 5.5% moderate, 4.6% thick). Compared with deliveries with clear amniotic fluid, those with meconium-stained amniotic fluid had higher rates of chorioamnionitis (2.3% vs 4.1%, P&lt;.001) and endomyometritis (1.0% vs 1.7%, P&lt;.001). Further, the severity of meconium staining was associated with increased rates of infection. CONCLUSION: We found that the presence and severity of meconium-stained amniotic fluid is associated with puerperal infection even when being controlled for confounders.
14535341	Life cycle and epizootiology of Amblyospora ferocis (Microspora: Amblyosporidae) in the mosquito Psorophora ferox (Diptera: Culicidae).	A natural population of Psorophora ferox (Humbold, 1820) infected with the microsporidium Amblyospora ferocis Garcia et Becnel, 1994 was sampled weekly during a seven-month survey in Punta Lara, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. The sequence of development of A. ferocis in larvae of P. ferox leading to the formation of meiospores followed the developmental pathway previously reported for various species of Amblyospora. The natural prevalence of A. ferocis in the larval population of P. ferox ranged from 0.4% to 13.8%. Spores were detected in the ovaries of field-collected females of P. ferox and were shown to be responsible for transovarial transmission of A. ferocis to the next generation of mosquito larvae in laboratory tests. These spores were binucleate and slightly pyriform in shape. The prevalence of A. ferocis in the adult population ranged from 2.7% to 13.9%. Data on effects of the infection on female fecundity showed that infected field-collected adults of P. ferox laid an average of 47.6 +/- 6.5 eggs of which 35.8% +/- 4.1% hatched. Uninfected field-collected adults of P. ferox laid 82.8 +/- 6.8 eggs of which 64.1% +/- 5.5% hatched. Six species of copepods living together with P. ferox were fed meiospores from field-infected larvae but none became infected. Horizontal transmission of A. ferocis to P. ferox larvae remains unknown.
14561984	Are predictive factors clinically useful in bone marrow transplantation?	Variables that accurately predict the clinical outcome of any procedure, including bone marrow transplantation (BMT), are of paramount importance when assessing the risks and benefits of the procedure. This review of the world's literature of variables affecting overall outcome after myeloablative BMT critically appraises the value of many bone marrow transplant dogmas. There is a relative paucity of data supporting many commonly used transplant practices, including having an upper age limit for eligibility criteria, and absolute requirements for cardiac and pulmonary function pre transplant. In contrast, recently published literature suggests that several parameters occurring soon after a BMT has been performed may accurately predict transplant outcome. Ultimately, given the rapidly evolving nature of BMT, renewed clinical research of variables predictive of transplant outcome is needed.
14573552	Involvement of human thalamic neurons in internally and externally generated movements.	Several anatomical studies support the existence of recurrent neural pathways from cortical motor areas to the thalamus via basal ganglia and back to the cortex. Neuronal responses to internally and externally generated sequential movements have been studied in the motor and premotor cortex of monkeys, but the involvement of subcortical motor structures such as the thalamus have not been studied in monkeys or humans. We examined the activity of neurons during a sequential button press task in motor thalamus of parkinsonian as well as chronic pain patients undergoing implantation of deep brain stimulating electrodes. Single and dual microelectrode recordings were carried out during an internally generated task with a memorized sequence (MEM) and an externally driven task with the sequence given during task performance (follow). Average histograms of neuronal firing were constructed for each task and aligned with respect to visual cues (ready, go) or button presses (P1, P2, P3). Sequential movements were monitored with surface electromyography and hand accelerometry, and cell responses were divided into movement-defined epochs for ANOVA and post hoc means testing. Of 52 neurons tested, 31 were found to have task-related responses and 10 were task-selective with 4 responding preferentially to MEM and 7 responding preferentially to follow (1 was both). Complex responses were found including preparatory, delay period, and phase- and task-specific activity. These kinds of responses suggest a role of the thalamus in both internally and externally cued arms movement and provide some evidence for a role in sequential movements.
14575795	GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP-36742 enhances somatostatin release in the rat hippocampus in vivo and in vitro.	Here, we show the modulation of somatostatin functions in the hippocampus by the orally active 'cognition enhancer' GABA(B) receptor antagonist, (3-aminopropyl)n-butylphosphinic acid (CGP-36742), both in vivo and in vitro. Using high-pressure liquid chromatography-coupled electrospray mass spectrometry, we measured a two-fold increase in the extracellular level of somatostatin to CGP-36742 application in the hippocampus of anaesthetised rats. The basal release of [125I]somatostatin in the synaptosomal fraction was increased by CGP-36742 in concentrations lower than 1 muM. Simultaneous measurement of [14C]Glu and [3H]gamma-aminobutyric-acid ([3H]GABA) showed that CGP-36742 increased their basal release. However, prior [125I]somatostatin application suppressed the increase in the basal release of [14C]Glu and induced a net decrease in the basal release of [3H]GABA. Somatostatin application had a similar effect. In slices, CGP-36742 increased the postsynaptic effect of somatostatin on CA1 pyramidal cells. These results suggest a pre- and postsynaptic functional 'cross-talk' between coexisting GABA(B) and somatostatin receptors in the rat hippocampus.
14576501	Prophylaxis with meropenem of septic complications in acute pancreatitis: a randomized, controlled trial versus imipenem.	OBJECTIVES: Prophylactic antibiotics are helpful in decreasing the incidence of septic complications in acute pancreatitis. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of meropenem, a new carbapenem antibiotic, with that of imipenem, which is the standard prophylactic treatment in patients with severe acute pancreatitis. METHODS: One hundred seventy-six patients with necrotizing pancreatitis were prospectively randomized to prophylactic treatment with 0.5 g meropenem t.i.d. intravenously or 0.5 g imipenem q.i.d. intravenously. The occurrence of infection of pancreatic necrosis, rate of extrapancreatic infections, systemic and local complications, need for surgery, mortality rate, and length of hospitalization were recorded for each group. When a septic complication of pancreatic necrosis was suspected, fine needle aspiration with cultures of the sample was performed. Surgery was performed in cases of verified infected necrosis. CONCLUSION: No difference was observed between patients treated with meropenem and those treated with imipenem in terms of incidence of pancreatic infection (11.4% versus 13.6%) and extrapancreatic infections (21.6% versus 23.9%) and clinical outcome. Meropenem is as effective as imipenem in preventing septic complications of patients with severe acute pancreatitis.
14584821	Cognitive experience and its effect on age-dependent cognitive decline in beagle dogs.	Test-sophisticated beagle dogs show marked age sensitivity in a size discrimination learning task, with old and senior dogs performing significantly more poorly than young dogs. By contrast, age differences in learning were not seen in dogs naive with respect to neuropsychological test experience. These results indicate that old animals benefit less from prior cognitive experience than young animals, which is an example of an age-dependent loss in plasticity. This finding also suggests that behaviorally experienced animals are a more useful model of human cognitive aging than behaviorally nave animals. We also looked at the effect of a program of behavioral enrichment in aged dogs. One year of enrichment did not lead to significant differences, but after 2 years the behaviorally enriched group performed significantly better than the control group. The effect after 2 years indicates that a prolonged program of cognitive enrichment can serve as an effective intervention in aged dogs. These findings demonstrate that cognitive abilities in aged animals can be modified by providing behavioral experience, indicating that cognitive abilities remain moderately plastic, even in very old animals.
14585122	Poliovirus vaccination: current understanding of poliovirus interactions in humans and implications for the eradication of poliomyelitis.	Poliomyelitis is a paralytic disease of the motor neurones of the central nervous system, which is caused by poliovirus. The virus is transmitted by the faecal-oral route, and if virus replication is confined to the gut, it is harmless. Poliomyelitis is an ancient human disease, but was rare until the beginning of the 20th century, when children began to be exposed to the virus at older ages and were, therefore, no longer protected by maternal antibody, which had already been lost. Inactivated polio vaccines are increasingly being used in those countries in which poliomyelitis has been brought under control; however, live vaccines are still the most widely used types and the World Health Organization (WHO) have set the goal of using such vaccines to eliminate the wild-type virus throughout the world by the year 2000. Substantial progress has been made to this end; however, the strains of poliovirus that are used as vaccines are able to adapt rapidly to the human gut, losing their attenuated (weakened) character within a few weeks. Currently, there is urgent debate about the best method of stopping vaccination against poliomyelitis once the wild-type poliovirus has been eliminated completely, so that the vaccine-strain virus will also be eliminated. Proposed strategies include the abrupt cessation of vaccination with the live virus worldwide, followed by the optional use of inactivated vaccines for an appropriate period. Further information about both the epidemiology and the pathogenesis of the disease is required before an informed choice can be made. The topics covered in this article include a brief history of studies of the disease, its pathogenesis and its control by vaccination, the molecular biology of the live vaccines, which have been extremely successful in controlling poliomyelitis so far, and the concerns that are raised as the eradication of the wild-type virus approaches.
14588171	Mortality variables in pyogenic meningitis in paediatric age group.	OBJECTIVE: To determine the association of the studied variables on mortality in pyogenic meningitis in paediatric age group. DESIGN: An observational analytical study. PLACE AND DURATION OF STUDY: Paediatrics Medicine, Unit-2 of B.V. Hospital, attached with Quaid-e-Azam Medical College, Bahawalpur, from December 2000 to December 2002. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sample size was 300 admitted cases of pyogenic meningitis, aged 2 months to 12 years, meeting the inclusion criteria. The association of the different variables with mortality in pyogenic meningitis was studied. Data was collected and tabulated. X2 test of significance was applied to determine the p-value. p&lt;0.05 was taken as statistically significant. RESULTS: The mortality rate was 10% (30/300). The association of different variables, with outcome at the time of admission was statistically significant in prolonged duration of illness (chronicity prior to admission and increased cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) neutrophils after 1st lumbar puncture. Among the etiological microorganisms isolated from culture of CSF, only Streptococcus pneumoniae had statistically significant association. CONCLUSION: Mortality in pyogenic meningitis was significantly related to pre-admission illness duration and CSF neutrophilia. Mortality can be reduced by early and appropriate recognition. Antibiotic and supportive therapy should be initiated promptly followed by specific medication when the reports of the CSF culture is available.
14596042	Prehospital management of pediatric SVT.	Accurate prehospital diagnosis and early initiation of emergency medical treatment for pediatric patients found to have supraventricular tachycardia is a reasonable task to accomplish and one that does not have to be anxiety-provoking. The most important point to remember is that the standard approach to resuscitation and stabilization for pediatric patients with narrow complex tachycardias (and those with aberrant or wide complexes identifiable as WPW) applies to all variations of SVT; thus, it is not necessary to precisely diagnose the variant prior to initiation of treatment, except for WPW, in which adenosine administration is contraindicated. Once the dysrhythmia is identified as SVT, the patient must rapidly be categorized as stable or unstable, which will then lead the EMS provider down the correct branch of the treatment algorithm. Every attempt should be made to perform a 12-lead ECG pre- and post-resuscitation, as well at to administer sedation prior to emergent synchronized cardioversion. Dosages of medications need not be memorized, provided that a readily available guide, such as a Broselow tape or regional tertiary care center laminated resuscitation card, is at hand. Finally, while termination of pediatric SVT, whether spontaneous or by EMS intervention, will also likely terminate the EMS provider's own palpitations, it is essential that these patients be seen in an emergency department immediately in order to accurately diagnose their medical condition and provide the patient and family with an appropriate disposition based on the events surrounding the incident.
14599560	Targeting oxidative stress-related diseases: organochalcogen catalysts as redox sensitizers.	Tumor cells proliferate under conditions of oxidative stress. A novel therapeutic approach would be to enhance the cellular effects of the reactive oxygen species formed under these conditions by supplementation with a redox catalyst. This provides a means to target and specifically destroy cancer cells via oxidation of redox-sensitive proteins, such as transcription factors, while leaving cells with a normal redox balance largely unaffected. We have previously reported a preliminary observation on the effects of pro-oxidant catalysts that enhance cancer cell death. This paper presents a detailed in vitro investigation into the mechanism of action of synthetic glutathione peroxidase mimics on a model Sp1 transcription factor peptide. The structure and redox potential of these mimics correlate with their ability to catalyze the oxidation of this zinc-binding motif by H(2)O(2) and these compounds promise therapeutic potential by promoting H(2)O(2)-induced PC12 cell death.
14600742	[Mobile ultrasonography in a medical department]	BACKGROUND: We examined the usefulness and image quality of a mobile miniaturised ultrasound scanner in a medical ward. MATERIAL AND METHODS: The instrument (SonoSite 180), weighing 2.4 kg, is a hand-carried system powered by batteries. In 25 days we recruited consecutively 36 patients aged 23-92. Four different operators evaluated the use of the scanner. We examined one group of patients with relatively simple diagnostic challenges (e.g. gallbladder stone) and one group of patients demanding more advanced visualisation (e.g. peptic ulcer, colitis). RESULTS: The scanner was easy to carry around and scanning was initiated in 10 seconds. We found satisfactory image quality on 81% of the examinations, despite the fact that in 28% of cases, bowel air and abdominal fat impaired acoustic penetration. Average scanning time was 7 +/- 3 minutes. In 83% of cases, mobile scanning adequately solved the clinical problem. Diagnostic work-up or treatment was changed because of scanning in 39% of the patients. In 64% of cases, standard-procedure referral to the department of radiology was avoided. In 81% of the examinations the operator was very satisfied with the scanner, also in cases that required advanced visualisation. INTERPRETATION: This mobile scanner was simple to use and gave quick results in a medical ward. The operators were very satisfied: mobile scanning changed diagnostic work-up or treatment in 4 out of 10 cases. Mobile ultrasound scanning enables early diagnosis and seems to promote an efficient flow of patients in a hospital unit.
14604125	Stroke: historical perspectives.	The author gives a historical account of stroke, the devastating statistics that still plague Americans, what the future holds, the current research, and possible areas for improvement and growth. Now with specialized imaging, diffusion-weighted and perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imagings may become the technique to rapidly diagnose brain attack. The cutting edge technology now involves balloons, coils, stents, angioplasty, and thrombolytics to save an ischemic penumbra. Of course, the overall goals remain early detection, intervention, and treatment, which today are individualized to each patient; community education of brain attack and what it looks like; and that time is brain survival. Therefore, a brain attack is a true 911 emergency.
14605407	4,4'-(azinodimethylene)dipyridinium chloranilate dichloromethane disolvate.	The dichloromethane disolvate of 4,4'-(azinodimethylene)dipyridinium chloranilate, C(12)H(12)N(4)(2+).C(6)Cl(2)O(4)(2-).2CH(2)Cl(2), consists of one-dimensional hydrogen-bonded molecular tapes that propagate along the [1-20] direction. Both cations and anions lie across centres of inversion. The molecular tapes are planar but do not stack in the expected segregated manner, instead having chloranilate anions sandwiched between azine groups.
14605620	Medium-term follow-up confirms the safety and durability of laparoscopic ventral hernia repair with PTFE.	BACKGROUND: Ventral abdominal wall hernias are common lesions and may be associated with life-threatening complications. The application of laparoscopic principles to the treatment of ventral hernias has reduced recurrence rates from a range of 25% to 52% to a range of 3.4% to 9%. In this study, we review our experience and assess the clinical outcome of patients who have undergone laparoscopic repair of ventral hernias. METHODS: We reviewed the outcome of 79 patients with more than 1 year of follow-up who underwent laparoscopic ventral hernia repair between March 1996 and December 2001. Patient demographics, hernia characteristics, operative parameters, and clinical outcomes were evaluated. RESULTS: Of the 79 patients, 37 were males. Mean age was 55.8 years (range 28-81). Sixty-eight patients had incisional hernias, including 17 with recurrent hernias. Eleven patients had primary ventral hernias. The mean defect size was 103 cm(2) (range 4-510); incarceration was present in 22 patients (27.8%), and multiple (Swiss-cheese) defects in 20 (25.3%). Laparoscopic expanded polytetrafluoroethylene mesh repair by the modified Rives-Stoppa technique was completed in 78 (98.7%). One conversion occurred because of bowel injury. The mean operating time was 110 minutes (range 45-210) and mean hospital stay was 1.7 days (range 0-20), with 46 patients (58.2%) being discharged within 24 hours of surgery. Complications included seroma formation (3), chronic pain (3), prolonged ileus (1), hematoma formation (1), and missed bowel injury (1) for a complication rate of (11.4%). There were no deaths. After a follow-up of up to 6 years (a mean of 34 months), there were 4 recurrences (5%). CONCLUSION: The laparoscopic repair of ventral hernias is safe, effective, and durable with minimal morbidity. It is particularly successful in patients with recurrent lesions. The laparoscopic approach to ventral hernia repair should be considered the standard of care.
14614056	Comparison of pathologist-detected and automated computer-assisted image analysis detected sentinel lymph node micrometastases in breast cancer.	Sentinel lymph node biopsy has stimulated interest in identification of micrometastatic disease in lymph nodes, but identifying small clusters of tumor cells or single tumor cells in lymph nodes can be tedious and inaccurate. The optimal method of detecting micrometastases in sentinel nodes has not been established. Detection is dependent on node sectioning strategy and the ability to locate and confirm tumor cells on histologic sections. Immunohistochemical techniques have greatly enhanced detection in histologic sections; however, comparison of detection methodology has not been undertaken. Automated computer-assisted detection of candidate tumor cells may have the potential to significantly assist the pathologist. This study compares computer-assisted micrometastasis detection with routine detection by a pathologist. Cytokeratin-stained sentinel lymph node sections from 100 patients at the University of Vermont were evaluated by automated computer-assisted cell detection. Based on original routine light microscopy screening, 20 cases that were positive and 80 cases that were negative for micrometastases were selected. One-level (43 cases) or two-level (54 cases) cytokeratin-stained sections were examined per lymph node block. All 100 patients had previously been classified as node negative by using routine hematoxylin and eosin stained sections. Technical staining problems precluded computer-assisted cell detection scanning in three cases. Computer-assisted cell detection detected 19 of 20 (95.0%; 95% confidence interval, 75-100%) cases positive by routine light microscopy. Micrometastases missed by computer-assisted cell detection were caused by cells outside the instrument's scanning region. Computer-assisted cell detection detected additional micrometastases, undetected by light microscopy, in 8 of 77 (10.4%; 95% confidence interval, 5-20%) cases. The computer-assisted cell detection-positive, light microscopy-missed detection rate was similar for cases with one (3 of 30; 10.0%) or two (5 of 47; 10.6%) cytokeratin sections. Metastases detected by routine light microscopy tended to be larger (0.01-0.50 mm) than did metastases detected only by computer-assisted cell detection (0.01-0.03 mm). In a selected series of patients, automated computer-assisted cell detection identified more micrometastases than were identified by routine light microscopy screening of cytokeratin-stained sections. Computer-assisted detection of events that are limited in number or size may be more reliable than detection by a pathologist using routine light microscopy. Factors such as human fatigue, incomplete section screening, and variable staining contribute to missing metastases by routine light microscopy screening. Metastases identified exclusively by computer-assisted cell detection tend to be extremely small, and the clinical significance of their identification is currently unknown.
14614634	Comparison of the results of early, delayed and elective surgery in biliary pancreatitis.	BACKGROUND/AIMS: To evaluate the results of the patients who underwent surgery for biliary pancreatitis, with respect to timing of operation. METHODS: 192 Patients underwent surgery for biliary pancreatitis between January 1990 and December 1999. The patients were retrospectively separated into three groups: early surgery (within 72 hours after admission), delayed surgery (between 3 and 15 days after admission) and elective surgery (after 15 days). RESULTS: There were 98 patients in the early surgery group, 46 in the delayed surgery group and 48 in the elective surgery group. The number of Ranson's criteria present was between 3 and 5 in 58.2% of the cases in the early surgery group and in 54.3% of the cases in the delayed surgery group, whereas 62.5% of the cases in the elective surgery group had 0-2. APACHE II score was in the 6-10 range in 43.9% of the cases in the early surgery group and in 39.1% of the cases in the delayed surgery group, whereas 66.7% of the cases in the elective surgery group had between 0 and 5. The most frequent operations in the early and delayed surgery groups was cholecystectomy, common bile duct exploration, and T-tube placement (60.2% and 69.6%, respectively), whereas it were laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the elective surgery group (66.7%). Pancreatitis-related complication rates in the early, delayed and elective surgery groups were 20.4%, 17.4% and 8.3%, respectively. Mortality rates were 5.1% and 4.3% in the early and delayed surgery groups, respectively. There was no deaths in the elective surgery group. CONCLUSION: In biliary pancreatitis, surgery should not be considered as a primary option until the resolution of the pancreatic inflammation and its systemic effects. It should be employed only when the clinical picture does not ameliorate in spite of conservative treatment.
14618449	Measurements of energy balance.	Early investigators recognized a link between a mammal's rate of heat production and its body size and composition. A particular challenge has been to establish whether between- and within-species differences exist in the rate of cellular energy exchange, notably as resting metabolic rate. Between-species or between-individual differences in body size must be adjusted for in order to answer the question, &quot;Is cellular heat production at rest high or low relative to some reference values?&quot; This overview traces the history of the evolving concepts in this field, identifies gaps in present measurement methods, and suggests areas of potential future research.
14618811	[Pathomorphological changes in lungs in acute periods of myocardial infarction]	With the aid of morphological methods of investigation, the structure of the lungs was studied in those deceased persons having been ill with myocardial infarction and also in rats simulated with acute coronary failure. Comparison of results of studies made in autopsy and experimental material has shown that in the lungs occur certain stereotype structural changes which reflect abnormalities of lipid metabolism and manifest itself by fat microembolism of vessels of the microcirculatory bed and by accumulation of unemulsified fats in the interalveolar septa and alveolar lumens.
14621008	Extended use of bilateral internal thoracic arteries for coronary artery bypass grafting in the elderly.	OBJECTIVE: Internal thoracic artery (ITA) grafts provide better early and long-term patency than saphenous vein (SV) grafts. Furthermore, bilateral ITA grafting has recently demonstrated better long-term results than unilateral ITA grafting. However, its use in the elderly is controversial. METHODS: From March 1991 through November 2001, 307 consecutive patients aged 65 years or over undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) were reviewed, and the influence of bilateral ITA grafting on the early and long-term results was evaluated. All ITA grafts were harvested as a pedicle, and almost all of which were used as in-situ grafts. RESULTS: Operative mortality in 138 patients undergoing bilateral ITA grafting was 1.4%, and in 108 patients undergoing unilateral ITA grafting, the rate was 0.9%. Pre-discharge angiography conducted in 97% of the subjects showed that the patency rate of all the ITA grafts (98.9%) was superior (p &lt; 0.0001) to that of all the SV grafts (93.6%). In comparisons of survival and freedom from cardiac events at 10 years after CABG, the bilateral use of ITA grafts was proved to be more beneficial than the unilateral use (p &lt; 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: It was demonstrated that bilateral ITA grafting could be performed with acceptable mortality and morbidity. Moreover, it offers better long-term survival and freedom from cardiac events than either unilateral ITA grafting or no ITA grafting. Bilateral ITA grafting thus can serve as a favorable procedure even in elderly patients.
14622507	[Should the therapeutic effort in artificial nutrition be limited?]	BASIS: There exists general agreement among the experts in Bioethics in order not to maintain a treatment if it is considered that it is useless. However, there is no unanimity about if serotherapy, enteral nutrition (EN), and parenteral nutrition (PN) are really therapeutic measures or else they are measures that they are part of the concept of palliative care. OBJECTIVE: Know the opinion of users and health workers of National Health System (NHS) in these issues. DESIGN: Cross-sectional descriptive study. AREA: Primary and specialized care. METHODS: A survey was distributed to 219 individuals (84 users of the NHS, 135 health workers), that it included sociodemographic parameters, the opinion on different aspects of ethics and nutritional support, and the measures regarded as palliative care. RESULTS: The majority of the respondents think that the EN (70.8%; 95% IC: 64.2-76.8) and PN (54.8%; 95% IC: 47.9-61.6) are part of the basic care, with differences between the health personnel and the users of the NHS. 50.2% considers that there are no differences between applying or removing nutritional support. 71.3% of the health professionals answer that this decision depends on the medical, 60.5% of the users of the NHS thinks that it depends on the patient himself and/or its family members. All the evaluated measures are regarded as basic care, regardless of the characteristics of the respondent. CONCLUSIONS: Artificial nutrition is understood as a basic care, regardless of the situation and quality of life of the patient. While the health professionals think that the decision to initiate/to retire artificial nutrition depends on the physician, the users of the NHS consider that it depends on the patient/family in case of disability of this.
14627495	Protective effects of scutellarin on superoxide-induced oxidative stress in rat cortical synaptosomes.	AIM: To evaluate the effects of scutellarin on superoxide-induced oxidative stress in rat cortical synaptosomes. METHODS: Oxidative damage model was established by incubation with xanthine (0.3 mmol/L) and xanthine oxidase (0.02 U) at 37 degree for 30 min. The extent of membrane oxidation was assessed by malondialdehyde (MDA). Membrane fluidity was measured by fluorescence anisotropy (polarization) of the lipophilic probe 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene (DPH). Intracellular Ca2+ concentration([Ca2+]i) was measured by fluorescent spectrophotometry. Fura 2-AM was used as an indicator for [Ca2+]i. Na+/K+-ATPase activity assay was based on the amount of inorganic phosphate (Pi) released during an enzymatic hydrolysis of ATP. RESULTS: Synaptosomes exposed to superoxide significantly elevated the levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and [Ca2+]i compared with those in normal group. These changes were accompanied by the decrease in membrane fluidity and Na+/K+-ATPase activity. Pretreatment with scutellarin (25-100 micromol/L) significantly ameliorated the oxidative damage of synaptosomes by reducing MDA levels and [Ca2+]i, up-regulating membrane fluidity and restoring Na+/K+-ATPase activity. CONCLUSION: Scutellarin exerts a potent protective effect against oxidative damage in synaptosomes induced by superoxide.
14631611	Toward rapproachment in the placebo control debate. A calculated compromise of power.	In an effort to minimize risk to participants, some investigators avoid using placebo controls in randomized controlled clinical trials (RCT) if an effective treatment is available. An unintended consequence of this approach is that substantially more participants remain acutely ill (i.e., nonresponders) throughout an active-comparator trial than a placebo-controlled trial. This is due to the increased sample size required to detect smaller differences between investigational and proven active agents. The objective of this article is to identify an RCT design that will minimize both the number assigned to placebo and the number of nonresponders. To do so, two aspects of clinical trial design are manipulated: choice of comparator and treatment allocation ratio. Several examples illustrate empirically that placebo-controlled trials that are designed to randomize twice as many participants to the investigational cell could appeal to potential study participants, clinical researchers, and Institutional Review Boards alike.
14634519	Diabetic mastopathy in an advanced elderly woman with insulin-dependent type 2 diabetes mellitus.	Diabetic mastopathy is an unusual stromal fibrotic lesion, but typically occurs in long-standing insulin dependent and younger diabetic patients. We report a case of diabetic mastopathy in an older diabetic patient. The patient was a 76-year-old woman with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus for 13 years and 3 years of insulin treatment. She developed a 3 cm, hard, mobile nodule in the left breast. Mammography revealed a dense mass. Ultrasonography showed an irregular-shaped hypoechoic lesion with an unclear boundary and acoustic shadowing. Since fine needle aspiration biopsy delivered insufficient material and core needle biopsy did not yield any specific findings for diagnosis, clinically diabetic mastopathy was the prime suspect but breast cancer could be completely ruled out. Surgical excision was thus performed and diabetic mastopathy was confirmed pathologically. We report on this rare case of diabetic mastopathy in a 76 year-old type 2 diabetic patient.
14639406	Axillary polymastia.	&quot;Polymastia&quot; is a term used to describe the presence of more than 2 breasts in human beings. It is synonymous with supernumerary or accessory breast tissue. Accessory breast tissue has the potential to undergo the same benign and malignant changes as normal pectoral breast tissue.
14650442	Analysis of heparin binding to human leukocytes using a fluorescein-5-isothiocyanate labeled heparin fragment.	The binding of LMWH-tyr-FITC to granulocytes, monocytes, and lymphocytes was analyzed by flow cytometry using a low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) labeled with fluorescein-5-isothiocyanate (FITC). FITC was covalently bound to tyramine, which was synthesized to LMWH by endpoint-attachment (Malsch et al.: Anal Biochem 217:255-264, 1994). The binding was rapid, specific, dose-dependent, saturable, and reversible. To investigate the molecular weight dependence of heparins, heparin-derived di- to dodecasaccharides were used. With decreasing molecular weight, the amount of oligosaccharides increased; these were bound to granulocytes, monocytes, and lymphocytes (r = -0.77). The degree of sulfation of non-heparin glycosaminoglycans influenced the binding to leukocytes. Decreasing the degree of sulfation decreased the binding. The pentasaccharide did not bind as strongly as the other heparin-derived oligosaccharides, indicating an AT III-independent mechanism. Two classes of heparin binding sites were identified on granulocytes and one class of binding sites on monocytes and lymphocytes. The lowest amount of LMWH-tyr-FITC detected was 1 ng on granulocytes, 0.18 ng on monocytes and 0.01 ng on lymphocytes. The data suggest that heparin and other sulfated polysaccharides may play a role in the physiology of thrombosis, arteriosclerosis, and inflammation by binding to granulocytes, monocytes, and lymphocytes.
14651606	Restricting restriction.	Systems biology is a new, fashionable and well-funded discipline, which to quote from a recent review aims to 'examine the structure and dynamics of cellular and organismal function, rather than the characteristics of isolated parts of a cell or organism em leader ' (Kitano, H. (2002) Science 295:1662-1664). Systems biology will do this by profiting from the vast amounts of biological information that are available in the genomics era and make extensive use of computer modelling. But: 'many breakthroughs in experimental devices, advanced software and analytical methods are required before the achievements of system biology can live up to their much-touted potential'. This edition of Molecular Microbiology contains a paper that is the product of traditional experimental biology but which could serve as a test case for systems biology. The paper shows how bacteria integrate such disparate subsystems as DNA restriction, homologous recombination and regulated proteolysis to protect their chromosomes from degradation. When systems biology can predict this level of choreography, it will be a mature discipline.
14657627	Bacteria ingestion by blowfly larvae: an in vitro study.	BACKGROUND: Maggot debridement therapy is the medical use of live fly larvae for cleaning chronic and infected wounds, removing devitalized tissue and decreasing the risk of infection. Maggot-derived proteins are able to kill bacteria, and proteolytic enzymes are responsible for the liquefying of necrotic tissue. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to investigate bacterial ingestion by larvae roaming free on bacterial agar, compared to those larvae contained within vinyl bags. METHODS: Free-roaming sterile larvae of Lucilla sericata and larvae contained in vinyl bags were fed on Escherichia coli producing green fluorescent protein (GFP). The time interval to the onset of fluorescent maggots was determined. At different time intervals, maggots were sacrificed, washed in sterile saline, sagittally cut in frozen sections and examined under a microscope with UV light. RESULTS: After feeding on GFP-labelled E. coli, maggots roaming free on bacterial lawn agar demonstrated fluorescence after 3 min, maggots entrapped in vinyl bags after 25 min. In the sagittal frozen sections, the highest fluorescent intensity was detected in the larvae's rostral part of the alimentary tract, the crop and the anterior midgut. CONCLUSION: In an in vitro setting, digestion and ingestion of whole or disintegrated bacteria is accomplished within minutes. The vinyl bag's permeable membrane clearly causes a delay of this process.
14660146	Measuring quality of life among HIV-infected women using a culturally adapted questionnaire in Rakai district, Uganda.	To examine self-reported quality of life and health status of HIV-infected women and a comparison sample of HIV-uninfected women in rural Uganda, we culturally adapted a Lugandan version of the Medical Outcomes Survey-HIV (MOS-HIV). We administered a cross-sectional survey among 803 women (239 HIV-positive and 564 HIV-negative) enrolled in a community study to evaluate maternal and child health in Rakai District, Uganda. The interview took 20 minutes and was generally well-accepted. Reliability coefficients were >0.70, except for role functioning, energy and cognitive function. MOS-HIV scores for HIV-positive women were correlated with increasing number of physical symptoms and higher HIV viral load. Compared to HIV-negative women, HIV-positive women reported lower scores than HIV-negative women for general health perceptions, physical functioning, pain, energy, role functioning, social functioning, mental health and overall quality of life (p all &lt;0.01). Substantial impairment was noted among women reporting >/=4 symptoms. In summary, HIV-positive women reported significantly poorer functioning and well-being than HIV-negative women. We conclude that patient-reported measures of health status and related concepts may provide a feasible, reliable and valid method to assess the impact of HIV/AIDS and future therapeutic interventions to improve patient outcomes in rural Africa.
14660700	Neighbor-net: an agglomerative method for the construction of phylogenetic networks.	We present Neighbor-Net, a distance based method for constructing phylogenetic networks that is based on the Neighbor-Joining (NJ) algorithm of Saitou and Nei. Neighbor-Net provides a snapshot of the data that can guide more detailed analysis. Unlike split decomposition, Neighbor-Net scales well and can quickly produce detailed and informative networks for several hundred taxa. We illustrate the method by reanalyzing three published data sets: a collection of 110 highly recombinant Salmonella multi-locus sequence typing sequences, the 135 &quot;African Eve&quot; human mitochondrial sequences published by Vigilant et al., and a collection of 12 Archeal chaperonin sequences demonstrating strong evidence for gene conversion. Neighbor-Net is available as part of the SplitsTree4 software package.
14664846	Characterization of chemical species in atmospheric aerosols in a metropolitan basin.	Ambient PM10 aerosol samples were collected from Taiwan's Taichung metropolitan basin between October 1997 and January 1998, and their chemical characteristics studied. The average mass concentration of PM10 was 109.0 +/- 54.1 microg/m3. Carbonaceous materials, sulfate, nitrate, and ammonium were the most important contributors to the PM10 component. On average, 64% of the PM10 was made up of fine particles. During PM10 episodes, average wind speed was 0.7 m/s and relative humidity was high, 83% on average, probably giving rise to stagnation of air pollutants and their entrapment close to the surface. With relative humidity &lt; 70%, NO3-, NH4+, SO4(2-), carbonaceous materials, and PM10 mass showed high correlation with maximum hourly average ozone (O3M). Variation in atmospheric humidity may affect the gas-to-particle interactions of S and N species. The most significant contribution to PM10 in the Taichung urban basin was from the photochemical formation of secondary aerosols and carbonaceous materials in the atmospheric environment.
14667178	Lipase inhibition attenuates the acute inhibitory effects of oral fat on food intake in healthy subjects.	The lipase inhibitor, orlistat, is used in the treatment of obesity and reduces fat absorption by about 30%. However, the mean weight loss induced by orlistat is less than expected for the degree of fat malabsorption. It was hypothesised that lipase inhibition with orlistat attenuates the suppressive effects of oral fat on subsequent energy intake in normal-weight subjects. Fourteen healthy, lean subjects (nine males, five females; aged 25 +/- 1.3 years) were studied twice, in a double-blind fashion. The subjects received a high-fat yoghurt 'preload' (males 400 g (2562 kJ); females 300 g (1923 kJ)), containing orlistat (120 mg) on one study day (and no orlistat on the other 'control' day), 30 min before ad libitum access to food and drinks; energy intake was assessed during the following 8 h. Blood samples were taken at regular intervals for the measurement of plasma cholecystokinin (CCK). Each subject performed a 3 d faecal fat collection following each study. Energy intake during the day was greater following orlistat (10,220 (SEM 928) kJ) v. control (9405 (SEM 824) kJ) (P=0.02). On both days plasma CCK increased (P&lt;0.05) after the preload. Plasma CCK 20 min following ingestion of the preload was less after orlistat (4.1 (SEM 0.9) pmol/l) v. control (5.3 (SEM 0.9) pmol/l (P=0.028); however there was no difference in the area under the curve 0-510 min between the two study days. Fat excretion was greater following orlistat (1017 (SEM 168) kJ) v. control (484 (SEM 90) kJ) (P=0.004). In conclusion, in healthy, lean subjects the acute inhibitory effect of fat on subsequent energy intake is attenuated by orlistat and the increase in energy intake approximates the energy lost due to fat malabsorption.
14667525	Laparoscopic extraperitoneal adenomectomy (Millin): pilot study on feasibility.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present work is to describe the surgical technique and to assess the feasibility of laparoscopic extraperitoneal adenomectomy in a pilot study. METHODS: Eighteen consecutive patients in whom an open adenomectomy was planned were operated on in a laparoscopic extraperitoneal fashion. In all patients indication was based on objective signs of obstruction. The laparoscopic approach was standard in all cases as follows: creation of a preperitoneal workspace, haemostatic control of lateral venous vesicoprostatic pedicles, transversal anterior incision of the prostate capsule, progressive enucleation of the adenoma with the help of an harmonic scalpel, suture of the posterior bladder neck to the prostate fossa, closure of the prostate capsule, and retrieval of the specimen.Feasibility was assessed by objective operative parameters (reconversion, operating time, and blood loss and transfusion requirements) and per operative complications. Data on short term follow-up are also available. RESULTS: Mean age of the patients was 67.8 years (S.D. 6.2) and mean prostatic weight calculated by TRUS 95.1cm(3) (S.D. 28.1). Mean maximal flow (Q(max)) was 4.3ml/s (S.D. 3.4) with four patients (22.2%) presenting in retention. Mean duration of intervention was 145min (S.D. 32.5) and mean blood loss 192ml (S.D. 178). Mean excised tissue was 47.6g (S.D. 30). Neither conversions to open prostatectomy nor transfusions were required. The urethral catheter remained in place an average of 3.0 days (S.D. 2.4) in 14 patients, while 4 needed a re-catheterization. Mean postoperative hospital stay was 5.9 days (S.D. 5.5). Five patients (27.7%) presented complications during follow-up, mild in most of the cases but one who required a secondary intervention for persistent obstruction. CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic extraperitoneal adenomectomy (Millin's procedure) is feasible with a reasonable complication rate. Although comparison with open adenomectomy is not yet available, this technique might have potential advantages in terms of blood loss and postoperative catheter time.
14668495	Thermal capsular shrinkage for treatment of multidirectional instability of the shoulder.	BACKGROUND: Capsular laxity is the main pathology in patients with multidirectional instability, and thermal shrinkage has been commonly employed to treat this condition. The objective of this study was to evaluate thermal capsular shrinkage as a treatment of multidirectional instability of the shoulder. METHODS: Nineteen consecutive patients with multidirectional instability were treated with thermal shrinkage. Fifteen patients had involuntary instability, and four had voluntary instability. The predominant direction of the instability was anteroinferior in ten patients and posterior in five; four patients had instability in multiple directions. Patients were followed for a minimum of two years or until surgical failure and recurrence of symptoms. Postoperatively, the patients wore a sling for three weeks, and they were evaluated regularly at three, six, and twelve months. The Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index as well as subjective and objective evaluations of the patient's function, range of motion, pain, and instability were used as clinical outcome measures. RESULTS: Nine patients had recurrence of the instability at an average of nine months (range, seven to fourteen months) following the surgical procedure. Four patients had sensory dysesthesias in the axillary nerve distribution, and one of them had deltoid weakness. All neurological symptoms resolved within nine months. The surgical procedure failed in the five patients with predominantly posterior instability. It failed in only two of the ten patients with predominantly anteroinferior instability, and overall this group had objective improvement. CONCLUSIONS: Thermal capsular shrinkage used to treat multidirectional instability had a substantial failure rate with associated postoperative complications, including recurrence of instability (nine of the nineteen patients), stiffness (five patients), and neurological symptoms (four patients).
14670349	Molecular mechanisms of MHC linked susceptibility in leprosy: towards the development of synthetic vaccines.	Tuberculoid (TT) and lepromatous leprosy (LL) develop in the human host depending on his ability to trigger a specific cellular immune response(CIR). Different genes have been demonstrated in susceptibility/protection and may explain the forms of leprosy. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) play an important role. The aim of the study was to explore the contribution of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DRB1, DQA1, DQB1 and DQ promoter genes in LL Mexican patients. Six families (26 LL, three TT patients and 27 controls) were analyzed; 114 unrelated patients were compared with 204 controls. Class I typing was done by the standard microlymphocytotoxicity and class II typing using PCR-SSOP. Haplotype segregation correlated with specific CIR in vivo and in vitro using lepromin. Haplotype sharing was significantly deviated in the affected sibs (p=0.01). Six healthy sibs were non-responders to lepromin and four of them were DQ1 homozgotes. DQ1 was significantly associated with LL and with non-responders. We set up macrophage activation experiments after infecting these cells with 5x10(6) bacilli to demonstrate if elimination occurred in the context or DQ1. When DQ1 was present on macrophages and on T cells, bacteria were poorly eliminated from the cell (32%) while when absent, 76% of the individuals were able to eliminate the bacilli (p=0.03). DRB1*1501 DQA1*0102-DQB1*0602 (DQ1 subtype) was significantly increased in the patients, indicating its participation in susceptibility. QBP 5.11/5.12 promoter present in the mentioned haplotype, and QAP 1.4, linked to DRB1*1301/02 haplotypes were also associated. Two mechanisms are suggested: the promoter polymorphisms may influence allele expression and thus the amount of peptides presented to the T-cell receptor, leading to a deficient CIR: HLA restriction is important for vaccine design; the way peptides anchor the DRB1*1501 groove may be relevant to the activation of TH1 cells, which contribute to an efficient presentation of peptides inducing a protective T-cell response.
14670599	N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine initiates the appearance of a well-resolved I peak in the kinetics of chlorophyll fluorescence rise in isolated thylakoids.	Addition of N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylendiamine (TMPD) to thylakoid membranes isolated from pea leaves initiates the appearance of peak I in the polyphasic rise of chlorophyll (Chl) fluorescence observed during strong illumination, making it similar to that observed in leaves or intact chloroplasts. This effect depends on TMPD concentration and incubation period of isolated thylakoids with TMPD. The resolution of I-peak in the presence of weak concentrations of TMPD which reduced the overlap between I- and P-peaks, resulted from a decreased reduction of both fast and slow plastoquinone (PQ) pools of the granal and stromal thylakoids, respectively, as TMPD effectively accepts electrons from reduced PQ. High concentrations of TMPD markedly decreased the J-I-P phase of fluorescence rise and greatly retarded the I-P step rise. Accumulation of oxidized TMPD in the thylakoid lumen accelerated the re-oxidation of the acceptor side of Photosystem II (PSII) as illustrated by a two-fold increase in the magnitude of the fast component and complete suppression of the middle component of the variable Chl fluorescence (F(v)) decay in the dark. Evidently, exogenous addition of high concentrations of TMPD prevented the light-induced reduction of the slow PQ pool.
14674651	Spatial-fringe-modulation-based quality map for phase unwrapping.	The quality-guided algorithm is a method widely used in phase unwrapping. The algorithm uses a quality map to guide its unwrapping process, and its validity depends on whether the quality map can truly reflect phase quality. In fringe projection surface profilometry, discontinuous surface structure, low surface reflectivity, and saturation of the image-recording system are sources of unreliable phase data. To facilitate the unwrapping process, we demonstrate an accurate quality map based on spatial fringe modulation, which is extracted from a single fringe pattern. Compared with temporal fringe modulation, the new criterion is more sensitive to spatial structure changes and less dependent on illumination conditions.
14675510	Psychopathological profile of men convicted of gender violence: a study in the prisons of Spain.	In this article, a description of the demographic, penal, and psychopathological characteristics of 54 men who are in prison because of having committed a serious offense of gender violence was carried out. Furthermore, a comparison of all the variables studied between the participants with homicide and those without homicide was done. The results showed the existence of irrational beliefs both about women and violence as a strategy to cope with everyday difficulties, as well as a general inadaptation to daily life. However, from a psychopathological point of view, in spite of not observing a high degree of symptomatology in the sample, the psychiatric and penal antecedents and current emotional instability were much more frequent and severe in people who had not committed homicide. Therefore, two possible differential profiles among the violent men are presented.
14677817	Global elimination of tuberculosis: implementation, innovation, investigation.	The elimination of a public health menace such as tuberculosis is always an attractive proposition. Is it realistic to consider? Selecting elimination as a target engages commitment, identifies challenges and stimulates critical evaluation. Challenges are numerous, including the large pool of latent infection, the long incubation period, the inadequacy of present tools and strategies, poverty and its relation to tuberculosis, the dependence on declining health services, the negative impact of human immunodeficiency virus infection, and the long-term commitment required with present approaches. Although tuberculosis has a tragic impact in causing death and chronic illness, the target for elimination must remain preventing infection, and the aim to achieve a generation free of infection. Targeting decreased mortality or improved health will not be sufficient to guide the critical reflection required to eliminate the causative organism; this can only be achieved by focusing on preventing and eliminating infection. While we have an international consensus on the strategy for controlling tuberculosis, we must also keep in mind that it is not sufficient. We must improve the current strategy as well as develop new tools on which we can base a new strategy if we hope to achieve the objective of elimination of tuberculosis. Reaching the target will require commitment to implementing what we currently have, improving on it in every way possible and keeping our minds and imaginations open to new ways to approach the fight against tuberculosis.
14680516	Validation of vital signs recorded via a new telecare system.	A telecare system (Medic4All) has been developed that relies on a wireless wristwatch-like sensor to measure the pulse wave from the radial artery. From this, the heart rate and respiration rate are derived. The system's performance was examined by comparing the results obtained from the pulse wave signal with those obtained from conventional electrocardiographic and spirometer devices. A total of 144 patients participated in the study; their mean (SD) age was 43 (18) years. There were 44 cardiac patients in group 1 and 100 healthy patients, who were studied in their homes, in group 2. There was a significant correlation between the heart rates measured by the two monitoring methods. A 'difference versus average' analysis showed that the error distribution had a mean (SD) value of -0.1 (3.3) beats/min. Similarly, the respiration rates measured by the two techniques were significantly correlated. The error distribution had a mean (SD) value of 0.1 (1.9) respirations/min. The present study suggests that the wrist-worn sensor represents a promising tool for online detection and monitoring of vital signs in the home.
14680683	Reaction rate constants of superoxide scavenging by plant antioxidants.	Plant phenols may exert protective effects by scavenging superoxide, which is implicated in tissue damage and accelerated inactivation of vasorelaxing nitric oxide. Preventing the interaction of superoxide with tissue biomolecules depends not only on the extent of superoxide scavenging but also on scavenging velocity. However, information on superoxide scavenging kinetics of plant phenols is scarce. We describe an improved lucigenin-based chemiluminescence assay for kinetic analysis. The use of potassium superoxide (KO2) as a nonenzymatic superoxide source allowed simple and reliable determination of the second-order reaction rate constants between superoxide and plant antioxidants at physiologically relevant conditions, avoiding unspecific effects of other reactive oxygen species or superoxide-generating enzymes. We calculated the rate constants for phenols of different structures, ranging from 2.9 x 10(3) mol(-1) l s(-1) for morin to 2.9 x 10(7) mol(-1) l s(-1) for proanthocyanidins. Compounds with pyrogallol or catechol moieties were revealed as the most rapid superoxide scavengers, and the gallate moiety was found to be the minimal essential structure for maximal reaction rate constants with superoxide.
14681988	[Analysis of dose-dependent antibody titration curves]	Several types of dose-response titration curves were considered. It was demonstrated that the use of the so-called coordinates of dilution suggested earlier by us allows one to analyze the titration curves, obtained either by ELISA, or by agglutination. Theoretical curves, obtained by the developed theory are very similar to those obtained in experiments. It was shown, that the analysis of the titration curves could give important information concerning antibody-blocking factors in titration sera or other samples of studied antibodies.
14688697	A new device for beating heart bipolar radiofrequency atrial ablation.	OBJECTIVE: A technique for mimicking left atrial atriotomies using an ablation device that can be deployed without cardiopulmonary bypass has been developed. METHODS: In 12 healthy large (35-50 kg) adult pigs, maze-like ablation lesions were directly applied to the left atrial epicardium on the beating heart. The ablation device is irrigated, with a bipolar &quot;hemostat&quot; morphology, utilizing radiofrequency energy. Prior to and after ablation, left atrial electromechanical properties were measured during sinus rhythm in the latest 5 pigs using percutaneous endocardial catheter electromechanical mapping and intracardiac echocardiography. Pathologic analysis was performed acutely. RESULTS: All ablation lesions demonstrated conduction block along their entire course. Global left atrial conduction time (49.4 +/- 8.8 milliseconds before vs 58.8 +/- 9 milliseconds after) and pattern were not significantly altered. Although a significant amount (17.12% +/- 9%) of myocardium was either ablated or electrically isolated, ablation was not associated with significant alterations in global left atrial mechanics (left atrium ejection fraction 19% before vs 17% after; pulmonary vein peak flow velocity 1.22 m/s before vs 1.38 m/s after; peak mitral inflow velocity 2.34 m/s before vs 2.64 m/s after), mitral valve function, nor left ventricular function. There was no evidence of atrial thrombus formation. Transmurality was achieved in most lesions with no evidence of charring or barotrauma. CONCLUSIONS: Utilizing this ablation device, atrial lesions similar to the left component of the Maze procedure were deployed with uniform success in a beating heart without cardiopulmonary bypass or atriotomy and without adverse effects on left atrial electromechanics.
14692188	Retroperitoneal neurofibrosarcoma in a patient with neurofibromatosis. 2: A case report and review of the literature.	Neurofibromatosis (NF) type I (NF1) is the most common familial cancer-predisposing syndrome in humans, while type 2 (NF2) accounts for an extremely small percentage of the total cases of NF. Tumors occurring in patients with NF1 are primarily peripheral neurofibromas, while NF2 patients present with central schwannomas. Malignant transformation has been described in NF1 patients; however, in NF2 the risk of malignant transformation is extremely rare. In this case report, the authors document a retroperitoneal neurogenic sarcoma occurring in a 20-year-old woman with NF2 (bilateral acoustic schwannomas, meningioma, and multiple intraspinal tumors).
14694289	The cost of stroke.	The control of health expenditure has become one of the main axes of health policy. Cost studies are an indispensable tool for determining the economic impact of disease and for assigning the material and human resources required for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up of patients with different diseases. Cost studies in stroke are necessary due to the increasing incidence of this disease which represents a significant cause of death and invalidity in adults and produces important hospital and social spending, and for which patients must be treated in specialized units (stroke units). The principal cost-determining factors in most studies are those generated by hospital admission (principally hospital stay). Other cost-determining factors include severity, stroke subtype or the fate of patients on discharge. Future health policies aimed at optimizing economic resources must be directed towards reducing hospital stay and minimizing patient disability.
14697000	Vowel category dependence of the relationship between palate height, tongue height, and oral area.	This article evaluates intertalker variance of oral area, logarithm of the oral area, tongue height, and formant frequencies as a function of vowel category. The data consist of coronal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences and acoustic recordings of 5 talkers, each producing 11 different vowels. Tongue height (left, right, and midsagittal), palate height, and oral area were measured in 3 coronal sections anterior to the oropharyngeal bend and were subjected to multivariate analysis of variance, variance ratio analysis, and regression analysis. The primary finding of this article is that oral area (between palate and tongue) showed less intertalker variance during production of vowels with an oral place of articulation (palatal and velar vowels) than during production of vowels with a uvular or pharyngeal place of articulation. Although oral area variance is place dependent, percentage variance (log area variance) is not place dependent. Midsagittal tongue height in the molar region was positively correlated with palate height during production of palatal vowels, but not during production of nonpalatal vowels. Taken together, these results suggest that small oral areas are characterized by relatively talker-independent vowel targets and that meeting these talker-independent targets is important enough that each talker adjusts his or her own tongue height to compensate for talker-dependent differences in constriction anatomy. Computer simulation results are presented to demonstrate that these results may be explained by an acoustic control strategy: When talkers with very different anatomical characteristics try to match talker-independent formant targets, the resulting area variances are minimized near the primary vocal tract constriction.
14706849	Efficient and cost-effective experimental determination of kinetic constants and data: the success of a Bayesian systematic approach to drug transport, receptor binding, continuous culture and cell transport kinetics.	Details about the parameters of kinetic systems are crucial for progress in both medical and industrial research, including drug development, clinical diagnosis and biotechnology applications. Such details must be collected by a series of kinetic experiments and investigations. The correct design of the experiment is essential to collecting data suitable for analysis, modelling and deriving the correct information. We have developed a systematic and iterative Bayesian method and sets of rules for the design of enzyme kinetic experiments. Our method selects the optimum design to collect data suitable for accurate modelling and analysis and minimises the error in the parameters estimated. The rules select features of the design such as the substrate range and the number of measurements. We show here that this method can be directly applied to the study of other important kinetic systems, including drug transport, receptor binding, microbial culture and cell transport kinetics. It is possible to reduce the errors in the estimated parameters and, most importantly, increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness by reducing the necessary amount of experiments and data points measured.
14711704	Neonatal-mouse infectivity of intact Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts isolated after optimized in vitro excystation.	We reexamined the finding of Neumann et al. that intact Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts obtained after in vitro excystation were infectious for neonatal CD-1 mice. We used both established excystation protocols and our own protocol that maximized excystation. Although intact oocysts isolated after any of three protocols were infectious for neonatal CD-1 mice, the infectivity of intact oocysts isolated with our optimized excystation protocol was significantly lower than the infectivity of intact oocysts isolated after established protocols or from fresh oocysts. Excystation should not be considered a valid measure of C. parvum viability, given that it is biologically implausible for oocysts to be nonviable and yet infectious.
14711734	Two cases of orbital lymphangioma associated with vascular abnormalities of the retina and iris.	PURPOSE: To report 2 patients with combined intraocular and orbital vascular abnormalities. DESIGN: Two interventional case reports. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical and pathologic findings. INTERVENTION/TESTING: Orbitotomy, fluorescein angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and radiation therapy. RESULTS: Two patients presented with vision loss, intermittent proptosis, and cosmetic deformity. These patients had orbital lymphangioma, ipsilateral retinal and iris vascular malformations, and smaller corneal diameter on the affected side. CONCLUSIONS: The coexistence of these diverse vascular anomalies supports the established hypothesis of pluripotential orbital vascular anlagen. Disruptive influences of various types during embryogenesis or development may produce a variety of congenital orbital and intraocular vascular malformations.
14711976	Pursuit-related neurons in the supplementary eye fields: discharge during pursuit and passive whole body rotation.	The primate frontal cortex contains two areas related to smooth-pursuit: the frontal eye fields (FEFs) and supplementary eye fields (SEFs). To distinguish the specific role of the SEFs in pursuit, we examined discharge of a total of 89 pursuit-related neurons that showed consistent modulation when head-stabilized Japanese monkeys pursued a spot moving sinusoidally in fronto-parallel planes and/or in depth and with or without passive whole body rotation. During smooth-pursuit at different frequencies, 43% of the neurons tested (17/40) exhibited discharge amplitude of modulation linearly correlated with eye velocity. During cancellation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex and/or chair rotation in complete darkness, the majority of neurons tested (91% = 30/33) responded. However, only 17% of the responding neurons (4/30) were modulated in proportion to gaze (eye-in-space) velocity during pursuit-vestibular interactions. When the monkeys fixated a stationary spot, 20% of neurons tested (7/34) responded to motion of a second spot. Among the neurons tested for both smooth-pursuit and vergence tracking (n = 56), 27% (15/56) discharged during both, 62% (35/56) responded during smooth-pursuit only, and 11% (6/56) during vergence tracking only. Phase shifts (relative to stimulus velocity) of responding neurons during pursuit in frontal and depth planes and during chair rotation remained virtually constant (&lt; or =1 Hz). These results, together with the robust vestibular-related discharge of most SEF neurons, show that the discharge of the majority of SEF pursuit-related neurons is quite distinct from that of caudal FEF neurons in identical task conditions, suggesting that the two areas are involved in different aspects of pursuit-vestibular interactions including predictive pursuit.
14713981	[Water--for life]	BACKGROUND: Water is an indispensable nutrient because of its physicochemical properties. People seem to consume more water than before although the scientific basis for this has not been firmly established. MATERIAL AND METHODS: We present a short overview of data retrieved from the databases PubMed and Ovid, with particular emphasis on the regulation of water intake and water excretion in adults. RESULTS: Water excretion is mainly regulated through the production of urine. Anti-diuretic hormone plays a key role. The intake of water is mainly governed via the poorly defined sense of thirst. Circumstantial evidence supports an increased intake of water to prevent certain cancers and cardiovascular diseases. INTERPRETATION: Both excessive hydration and dehydration can cause serious illness, in particular in the elderly. There is a lack of firm scientific support for the beneficial health effects of increased water intake.
14716059	Synchronous primary carcinomas of the ampulla of Vater and ascending colon in a patient with multiple flat adenomas.	Multiple primary cancers occurring in the same patients have been reported to represent 1.8-3.9% of all cancers. The majority of all patients reported to have had a combination of simultaneous neoplastic changes in the ampulla of Vater and the colon showed familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) syndrome. Variants of familial adenomatous polyposis coli are: attenuated adenomatous polyposis coli (AAPC, previously also known as flat adenoma syndrome) and multiple adenoma coli. AAPC is characterized clinically by many, but usually fewer than 100, colonic lesions that are characteristically slightly elevated and plaque-like, with a reddish surface and sometimes central depression. Genetically it represents an extremely rare variant of FAP. Another group of individuals, so-called multiple adenoma patients, have a phenotype similar to AAPC, but most have no demonstrable germ-line adenomatous polyposis coli mutation, as do patients with FAP or AAPC. However, there have been only a few reports that discussed concurrent neoplastic changes in the ampulla of Vater and colon in patients with multiple colonic flat adenomas, but without the florid phenotype of classical FAP. We present rare clinical course of a patient with multiple (more than 60) flat adenomas in the proximal colon and two primary cancers: of the ampulla of Vater and of the ascending colon. This patient and his family history did not show polyposis compatible with FAP or hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) syndrome.
14716421	[Hepatitis C virus infection in female sexual workers from northern Lima]	Hepatitis C is the second major endemic viral infection in the world after HIV. In the USA it is the first liver transplant indication. Currently, the main risk factors to develop this disease are history of blood transfusions and IV drug usage. Sexual transmission remains controversial and accounts probably for less than 5% of case transmissions. PURPOSE: Determine the prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection in female sexual workers from Northern Lima and identify other risk factors. MATERIAL AND METHODS: A prospective study was performed in female sexual workers from Northern Lima. Risk factors were assessed in a survey; at the time of the assessment they were HIV negative. The COBAS CORE Anti-HCV EIA II Test was used. RESULTS: HCV serology was negative in all 98 sexual workers. 90% used protection with condoms, none used IV drugs and only one had a previous history of blood transfusion. CONCLUSIONS: HCV prevalence in female sexual workers evaluated was zero. They have few risk factors, sexual transmission of this virus is very low and even lower in a population where over 90% of the people uses condoms.
14716580	Mechanisms of ST change in partial thickness ischemia.	The origin of ST depression in ischemia remains poorly understood. The accepted source is of intracellular current flowing between the ischemic and non ischaemic muscle both in systole and diastole such that the AC recorded electrocardiogram shows ST elevation over the ischemic area. The difficulty comes with partial thickness ischemia where the body surface changes do not allow localisation of the ischemic region. In an animal model we have shown that the reason one cannot see the region on the body surface is that the epicardial distribution of ST segment is almost identical for partial thickness ischaemia in the left anterior descending coronary artery, (LAD) and circumflex coronary artery (Cx) territories. Dissection of the reasons for this finding has lead to 3 contributing factors. The first is the role of the right ventricular blood mass, the second the boundary between ischemia and normal and the third the presence of anisotropy and its contribution. In a block of myocardium with anisotropy included we have shown marked differences between the distributions depending on the anisotropy. We have also shown that the published values of conductivity for use in the bidomain model produce unacceptably disparate results.
14716762	Cigarette smoking and colorectal carcinoma mortality in a cohort with long-term follow-up.	BACKGROUND: Evidence suggests that colorectal carcinoma (CRC) may be a tobacco-associated malignancy. METHODS: In the current study, the authors examined the association between cigarette smoking and CRC mortality in the Chicago Heart Association Detection Project in Industry study, a cohort of 39,299 men and women with an average of 26 years of follow-up. To assess whether the association was stronger in participants with a potentially long history of smoking, the authors also stratified the analysis using a baseline age > or = 50 years versus &lt; 50 years. RESULTS: Using multivariate Cox regression analysis, there was a marginally significant trend (P = 0.06) for men and women combined between smoking and CRC mortality. In the age-stratified analysis in the older participant group, there was no apparent association for men, women, or men and women combined. In the younger participant group, there appeared to be dose-response relations for women and for men and women combined (P value for trend = 0.008 and 0.03, respectively) between smoking and CRC mortality. The relative risk for women who smoked >20 cigarettes/day compared with never smokers was 2.49 (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 0.87-7.12), and was 1.87 for men and women combined (95% CI, 1.08-3.22). CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study support an association between cigarette smoking and CRC mortality, particularly in women age &lt; 50 years.
14717758	Increased use of adjuvant regional radiotherapy for node-positive breast cancer in British Columbia.	This study was to determine if the use of regional radiotherapy (RT) changed in British Columbia after publication of new randomized trial data in 1997. Women with pathologic T1-3N1, nonmetastatic breast cancer treated with a mastectomy or breast-conserving surgery (BCS) were included. The use of regional RT was compared in two cohorts: cohort 1, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1997 (n = 834); and cohort 2, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000 (n = 1072). All p-values were two-sided. Adjuvant systemic therapy was given to 96% and 95% of women in cohorts 1 and 2, respectively. Forty-five percent of cohort 1 and 48% of cohort 2 had BCS. Regional RT was received by 44% of cohort 1 and 66% of cohort 2 (p &lt; 0.001). Eighty-eight percent and 90% of women with four or more positive nodes in cohorts 1 and 2 received regional RT, respectively. For women in cohorts 1 and 2 with one to three positive nodes, regional RT use increased from 32% to 54% after mastectomy, and from 23% to 59% after BCS, respectively (p &lt; 0.001 for both). Publication of randomized trials and a coordinated guideline implementation process in British Columbia was associated with a significant increase in the use of regional RT in women with one to three positive nodes.
14725225	[What is new in fasting guidelines of surgical patients? Review of the literature]	The concept of perioperative starvation requires an update on a more balanced physiological bias. The old British dictum &quot;nil by mouth from midnight&quot; is a thing of the past. We need to administer food and fluids as early as possible both before both before and after surgery and to avoid or reduce hospital infections. Resumption of bowel movements is very rapid, and the patients are fed and experience no thirst and thus have better compliance during their hospital stay. Moreover, the social cost is reduced. A short review of the rules of various Associations of Anaesthetists both in Europe and the US shows that today the starvation time is reduced, and re-feeding after surgery is implemented early. For clear fluids a 2-h period before surgery without ingestion of clear fluids is enough, whilst in most countries a 6-h period of starvation for solid foods is the rule, but if proper distinctions are made between the various nutrients given to the patients, this time could be reduced to 2-3 hours.
14725846	Neuropsychological aspects of epilepsy surgery.	Neuropsychological evaluation of a patient's cognitive capabilities before and after epilepsy surgery is essential in elective epilepsy surgery. On the one hand, neuropsychology provides accessory information regarding the localization and lateralization of epilepsy-associated cognitive impairment; on the other hand, it is a useful tool for quality and outcome control of epilepsy surgery which helps to make surgery more effective and safe. Evaluation of the adequacy of the brain tissues to be resected and of the patient's mental reserve capacities allows for a prediction of the postoperative cognitive development. Successful surgery can stop mental decline due to chronic epilepsy and it can reverse this negative trend by release of functions and capacities that were secondarily affected before surgery. However, surgery bears the risk of additional impairments which, in interaction with normal or even pathological processes of mental aging, may accelerate cognitive decline at an older age. From a neuropsychological point of view, early recognition of pharmacoresistance is important along with early and complete seizure control with maximal sparing of functional tissues.
14731965	Nuclear transport: a guide to import receptors.	After synthesis in the cytoplasm, nuclear proteins traverse the nuclear envelope as a result of the specific recognition of nuclear localization signals by import. Various approaches have now uncovered a range of proteins with at least some of the characteristics expected of import receptors. This article focuses on early steps in the nuclear import of proteins and surveys the recently identified candidate import receptors.
14732694	A structure-based model for ligand binding and dimerization of EGF receptors.	On the basis of the 3D structures of the extracellular ligand-binding domains of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor (EGFR) and ErbB3, a mechanism has been proposed for how the extracellular region of the EGFR is maintained in an autoinhibited configuration and for how EGF binding induces EGFR dimerization and activation. We have attempted to derive a mathematical model for EGF binding to the EGFR and for ligand-induced receptor dimerization and activation that uses this structural information and can explain the characteristic concave-up curvilinear Scatchard plots seen when EGF binding to intact EGFR is studied in living cells. We show that these curvilinear plots cannot be accounted for by simply ascribing different affinities to the autoinhibited and extended (dimeric) configurations of the receptor seen in structural studies. Concave-up plots can only be obtained by including in the mathematical model an additional binding event in which occupied EGFR dimers bind to an &quot;external site.&quot; The external site may represent receptor interactions with coated-pit regions in the cell membrane or with other cellular components involved in receptor endocytosis and turnover. We conclude in this study and in the accompanying article that the active extended EGFR configuration binds EGF 5- to 20-fold more strongly than the autoinhibited monomeric receptor configuration. However, these extended receptors do not correspond directly with the &quot;high-affinity&quot; EGF-binding sites seen in EGF-binding studies on intact cells.
14739008	Visually guided locomotion in the gerbil: a comparison of open- and closed-loop control.	Two experiments were conducted in order to explore the effects of visual feedback on control of locomotion in the gerbil. In the first experiment, gerbils were trained to run down an alleyway towards a visual target in order to obtain food reward. One group of animals was trained to run to a target whose size never varied while another group was trained to run to a target whose size varied randomly from trial to trial. On some trials, the target's size was changed dynamically during running to determine whether gerbils used this dynamic size change information to compute time to collision (tau). Results suggested that neither group used retinal image size information but both groups seemed able to compute tau. In a second experiment, gerbils were trained in the same way as in experiment 1, but on some trials the target was extinguished during the run. In this condition, probe trials showed that gerbils used retinal image size to compute target distance. Collectively, the results showed that gerbils were able to rapidly and flexibly utilize available information to complete a visually guided running task. The results are discussed in the context of the psychophysics of cue combination and its neural underpinnings.
14740698	Effect of surgery on ventricular tachyarrhythmias associated with coronary arterial occlusive disease.	We studied 51 patients with coronary artery disease over a 32-month period to determine the effect of coronary revascularization or ventricular resection on ventricular tachyarrhythmias. In these patients, whose major indications for operation were tachyarrhythmias, operative mortality was 18% (9/51). Myocardial infarction could not be documented in 16 patients, including four resuscitated from an arrest; 15 underwent coronary grafting, and one had grafting and mitral valve replacement, with one hospital death. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) persist in four of the 15 survivors; all those who had an arrest are free of PVCs. The other 35 patients had documented infarction, associated with an arrest in 19. Grafting only was required in 18, with no hospital mortality and two late deaths (congestive failure and ventricular tachyarrhythmia at 7 months, ventricular tachyarrhythmia at 5 months); eight of 16 survivors have PVCs. Acute (&lt; 3 weeks) infarct resection was performed in six patients with three hospital deaths, no late deaths; one survivor has PVCs. Chronic (> 3 weeks) aneurysm resection in four patients (with bypass grafting in three) had no operative mortality, one late death (5 months) from ventricular tachyarrhythmias, and one survivor continues with PVCs. The remaining seven patients, all in cardiogenic shock, required more than two procedures (bypass grafting, LV resection, VSD closure, mitral valve replacement), with five hospital deaths; the two survivors still have PVCs. Thus, ventricular tachyarrhythmia secondary to coronary artery disease is more likely to resolve postoperatively in patients without myocardial infarction, but its postoperative persistence remains substantial and may warrant special efforts to locate and ablate ectopic foci and/or re-entry pathways.
14741866	Teachers' responsibility: a Socratic dialogue about teaching medical ethics.	Old, wise Socrates (SO) is strolling along the Agora to buy some fruit for his wife Xanthippe. He meets Paidagogos (PA),a teacher of medical ethics in the ancient Polis of Athens. Both engage in a discussion on teachers' responsibility and its implications for the design and structure of learning sessions at medical school.
14742941	Delayed pharyngo-esophageal perforation: rare complication of anterior cervical spine surgery.	An injury to the pharynx and esophagus is a known complication of anterior cervical spine surgery. Two cases of delayed pharyngo-esophageal perforation following anterior cervical spine surgery that resulted in fistula are presented. We postulate that graft displacement and dislodgement of implant with resulting esophageal erosion was responsible for this complication.
14743110	[Clinical types of onychomycosis]	Clinical classification of onychomycosis is based on how the pathogenic agent penetrates the unguis. The disto-lateral sub-ungual variety is the most common. Dermatophytes (especially Trichophyton rubrum) and Scytalidium in tropical regions (Sc hyalium, Sc dimidiatum) are the most frequent toenail pathogens. Progression of a yellow friable sub-ungual hyperkeratosis associated with longitudinal striations and/or xanthonychial or leuconychial zones (sometimes pigmented with Trichophyton rubrum nigricans or Scopulariopsis brevicaulis) lead rapidly to onycholysis and later to total dystrophy of the ungual plate. Associated paronychia is more common in scytalidiasis. Candida species (tropicalis, parapsilosis) and fungi (Aspergillus sp. Fusarium sp, Acremonium sp, Penicillium sp, Scopulariopsis brevicaulis) generally colonize pre-existing onycholysis. For the fingernails, candidal colonizations secondary to pre-existing onycholysis is much more frequent than primary dermatophyte or scytalidium onychomycoses which are much less hyperkeratotic than on toenails. The one hand two feet tinea syndrome caused by Trichophyton rubrum is a particular entity. Proximal sub-ungual onychomycoses without fingernail or toenail paronychia is generally caused by Trichophyton rubrum in immunodepressed subjects (AIDS). Initial proximal leuconychia progresses to the distal part of the nail. Proximal lesions associating proximal leuconychia and paronychia result from fungi, Fusarium being the most commonly identified agent. Onyxis complicating chronic paronychia, generally related to Candida colonization, occurs in subjects with particular conditions (immunodepression, distal vascular disorders). Superficial onychomycosis, e.g. superficial toenail leuconychia, is mainly due to Trichophyton interdigitale, more exceptionally to Trichophyton rubrum (children, immunodepressed), and rarely Candida (children). Endonyx onychomycosis occurs when the pathogen invades the entire thickness of the nail (milky leuconychia without sub-ungual hyperkeratosis). Trichopnyton violaceum or soudanense is the most common pathogen. Even though the clinical presentation of onychomycosis is highly suggestive of the pathogenic agent, the lack of specific criteria implies a mycological sample to confirm the diagnosis and identify the causal agent before initiating treatment.
14744229	Group performance and decision making.	Theory and research on small group performance and decision making is reviewed. Recent trends in group performance research have found that process gains as well as losses are possible, and both are frequently explained by situational and procedural contexts that differentially affect motivation and resource coordination. Research has continued on classic topics (e.g., brainstorming, group goal setting, stress, and group performance) and relatively new areas (e.g., collective induction). Group decision making research has focused on preference combination for continuous response distributions and group information processing. New approaches (e.g., group-level signal detection) and traditional topics (e.g., groupthink) are discussed. New directions, such as nonlinear dynamic systems, evolutionary adaptation, and technological advances, should keep small group research vigorous well into the future.
14745071	Lateralizing value of Todd's palsy in patients with epilepsy.	The authors retrospectively investigated the value of Todd's palsy (TP) in lateralizing the hemisphere of seizure onset in patients admitted for video-EEG monitoring in a tertiary epilepsy center. In 29 patients, a postictal hemiparesis was observed. TP always occurred contralateral to the epileptogenic hemisphere in 27 patients (93%). In the remaining two patients, the seizure onset could not be lateralized. In some patients, TP occurred after a seizure without focal motor features or secondary generalization.
14757310	Increases in lipids and immune cells in response to exercise and mental stress in patients with suspected coronary artery disease: effects of adjustment for shifts in plasma volume.	This study examined the role of shifts in plasma volume on lipid and immune reactions to stress. Lipid, immune, rheological, and cardiovascular reactions to exercise and mental stress in 51 patients with suspected coronary artery disease were determined. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured during and blood samples taken at the end of each rest and task. Lipids (total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL, LDL) and immune cells (lymphocytes, monocytes, granulocytes) increased with exercise, whereas cholesterol, LDL, and lymphocytes increased with mental stress. Plasma volume decreased by 1 and 5% following mental and exercise stress, respectively. The task-induced increases in lipids were no longer statistically significant following adjustment for changes in plasma volume, whereas the increases in immune cell numbers survived such correction. This study provides evidence that, in coronary artery disease patients, exercise and mental stress-induced increases in lipids but not immune cells can be largely accounted for by shifts in plasma volume.
14758097	Optimizing risk stratification in cardiac rehabilitation with inclusion of a comorbidity index.	PURPOSE: The risk stratification criteria of the American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation include guidelines to be used in stratifying cardiac rehabilitation (CR) patients for risk of disease progression (long term) and clinical events (short term). Noncardiac comorbidities are not included as indicators in these criteria. This study was designed to ascertain the prevalence of noncardiac comorbidities among CR patients, and to assess their relation to the current risk stratification algorithm for clinical events. METHODS: Patients were stratified into high-, intermediate-, and low-risk groups according to the American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation risk stratification criteria for clinical events (ARSE) at program entry. Within each risk group, age, gender, race, and noncardiac comorbidities were ascertained. Comorbidities were summarized in a comorbidity index (CMI). The relation between clinical events and risk status by ARSE and CMI was evaluated by logistic regression. RESULTS: Among 490 patients (age, 60 +/- 12 years; 35% women; 30% nonwhite) enrolled in CR with ischemic heart disease, the number of comorbidities ranged from 0 to 7 (median, 2; 75th percentile, 3). The patients categorized in the three ARSE groups differed significantly in age and comorbidities. Although ARSE tended to identify patients with a greater comorbidity burden, 38% of the patients with a comorbidity index exceeding the 75th percentile were not classified in the highest ARSE group. Clinical events increased across ARSE and CMI risk strata. Both ARSE and CMI were independent predictors of events in an age-, gender-, and race-adjusted logistic regression analysis (ARSE odds ratio [OR], 1.56; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.14-2.12; CMI OR, 1.23, 95% CI, 1.03a-1.47). Events were predicted best when both classifications were combined. Exploratory gender-specific analyses suggested that ARSE performed better among men than among women, whereas CMI was a more important predictor among women. CONCLUSIONS: To appreciate more fully the overall complexity of disease among CR patients, ARSE should be supplemented not only with the inclusion of cardiac risk factors, as suggested in the current guidelines, but also with an assessment of noncardiac comorbidities.
14759642	Implications for hyperhomocysteinemia: not homocysteine but its oxidized forms strongly inhibit neuronal network activity.	Severe hyperhomocysteinemia (50-200 microM) often presents itself with acute neuronal dysfunction including seizures and psychosis. Its moderate form (15-50 microM) is associated with cognitive impairment and dementia. We investigated the neuropharmacological effects of homocysteine and its oxidized forms, homocysteinesulfinic acid (HCSA) and homocysteic acid (HCA), on neuronal network function utilizing dissociated cortical neurons from embryonic Wistar rats on microelectrode arrays. All substances inhibited dose-dependently and reversibly spontaneous neuronal network activity within seconds: L-HCSA and L-HCA blocked spontaneous spike rate (SSR) significantly at very low concentrations, with an IC50 of 1.9 and 1.3 microM, respectively; whereas the dose-response curve of D,L-homocysteine revealed an IC50 of 401 microM. These effects were antagonized by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) pointing to the NMDA receptor as mediator of this fast and reversible inhibition of network activity. We conclude that a neuronal dysfunction observed in hyperhomocysteinemia is likely due to HCSA and HCA since effective concentrations of homocysteine are not reached in patients.
14960500	Presynaptic mechanisms of motor fluctuations in Parkinson's disease: a probabilistic model.	Levodopa-treated Parkinson's disease is often complicated by the occurrence of motor fluctuations, which can be predictable ('wearing-off') or unpredictable ('on-off'). In contrast, untreated dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) is usually characterized by predictable diurnal fluctuation. The pathogenesis of motor fluctuations in treated Parkinson's disease and diurnal fluctuation in untreated DRD is poorly understood. We have developed a mathematical model indicating that all these fluctuations in motor function can be explained by presynaptic mechanisms. The model is predicated upon the release of dopamine being subject to probabilistic variations in the quantity of dopamine released by exocytosis of vesicles. Specifically, we propose that the concentration of intravesicular dopamine undergoes dynamic changes according to a log-normal distribution that is associated with different probabilities of release failure. Changes in two parameters, (i) the proportion of vesicles that undergo exocytosis per unit of time and (ii) the proportion of dopamine subject to re-uptake from the synapse, allowed us to model different curves of levodopa response, for the same degree of nigrostriatal damage in Parkinson's disease. The model predicts the following periods of levodopa clinical benefit: 4 h for stable responders, 3 h for wearing-off fluctuators, and 1.5 h for on-off fluctuators. The model also predicts that diurnal fluctuation in untreated DRD should occur some 8 h after getting up in the morning. All these results fit well with clinical observations. Additionally, we calculated the probability of obtaining a second ON period after a single dose of levodopa in Parkinson's disease (the 'yo-yoing' phenomenon). The model shows that the yo-yoing phenomenon depends on how fast the curve crosses the threshold that separates ON and OFF states, which explains why this phenomenon is virtually exclusive to patients with on-off fluctuations. The model supports the idea that presynaptic mechanisms play a key role in both short-duration and long-duration responses encountered in Parkinson's disease. Dyskinesias may also be explained by the same mechanisms.
14960770	Genetic background of cutaneous forms of lupus erythematosus: update on current evidence.	This article reviews and updates current information on the possible genetic basis for cutaneous lupus erythematosus. The aetiology of this condition remains unknown and is believed to be multifactorial, involving genetic, environmental and retroviral factors. A genetic predisposition is probably the greatest risk factor for this condition. Individual susceptibility to lupus erythematosus may be determined by a combination of specific polymorphisms of genes encoding multiple cytokines, adhesion molecules, and cellular proteins. This condition may lead to an abnormal expression of immunoregulatory molecules and finally results in the development or exacerbation of the disease. Recently also the role of endogenous retroviral sequences in the pathogenesis of autoimmunity has been discussed.
14961660	[2 + 2]-Photocycloaddition of 1,1-diethoxyethylene to chiral polyfunctional 2-cyclohexenones. Regioselectivity and pi-facial discrimination.	The photochemical [2 + 2]-cycloadditions of 1,1-diethoxyethylene to chiral polyfunctional 2-cyclohexenones have been carried out leading to the production of highly constrained unusual alpha-amino acids with excellent regioselectivity and satisfactory yields. Theoretical calculations have been done to rationalize the observed regio- and diastereoselectivity and show that regiochemistry is determined by the relative rate of formation of the 1,4-biradical intermediates and not by the stability of these species.
14964343	Acetylsalicylic acid tablets with glycine improve long-term tolerability in antiplatelet drug therapy: results of a noninterventional trial.	To determine the tolerability of a glycine (Gly)-containing acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) preparation (Gly-ASA), investigators selected 1135 patients already receiving longterm antiplatelet therapy for a noninterventional trial of Gly-ASA 50 to 300 mg daily. After an average treatment period of 42.6 days, tolerability rating scores and the frequency of 5 gastrointestinal (GI) complaints were compared with those reported for any previous treatment, including plain ASA. After treatment with Gly-ASA, the mean percentage of patients without GI complaints increased more than 2-fold, from 28.2% to 60.6%. Furthermore, the mean percentage of patients reporting any GI symptoms as &quot;always&quot; present decreased from 8.5% to 0.5%. Gly-ASA tolerability was rated &quot;excellent&quot; or &quot;good&quot; by 98% of the patients. In 10 patients (0.9%), Gly-ASA treatment was terminated prematurely due to GI intolerance (n=4) and nonmedication-related causes (n=6). With respect to long-term treatment compliance, the improved tolerability profile observed with this Gly-ASA preparation indicates an important advantage over nonglycine-containing ASA alternatives.
14964416	Liquid chromatographic-mass spectrometric method for quantitative determination of lisinopril in human plasma.	A validated liquid chromatographic-mass spectrometric (LC/MS) method for the determination of lisinopril in human plasma is presented. Enalapril was used as an internal standard. After the addition of internal standard, solid phase extraction was used as a cleaning step. To separate lisinopril and enalapril from interfering endogenous plasma substances, the analysis was performed using column switching valve. The quantitative determination was performed using selected ion monitoring (+)-electrospray LC-MS. A combination of an acidic mobile phase and a reverse phase column was used. A precision in the linear range from 10 to 500.0 ng/mL plasma, absolute recovery of 91.69% for lisinopril and 90.26% for enalapril, stability for 3.5 months at -20 degrees C have been achieved. Limit of quantitation (LOQ) was 10 ng/mL while limit of detection (LOD) was about 1 ng/mL.
14965451	An approach to the development of hearing standards for hearing-critical jobs.	Many jobs at the Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) have several features in common: they are often performed in noisy environments and involve a number of auditory skills and abilities, such as speech communication, sound localization, and sound detection. If an individual lacks these skills and abilities, it may constitute a safety risk for this individual, as well as for fellow workers and the general public. A number of scientific models have been developed to predict performance on these auditory skills based on diagnostic measures of hearing such as pure-tone audiograms. While these models have significant scientific and research value, they are unable to provide accurate predictions of real life performance on auditory skills necessary to perform hearing-critical jobs. An alternative and more accurate approach has been developed in this research project. A direct measure of functional speech perception in noise (Hearing in Noise Test: HINT) has been identified and validated for use in screening applicants for hearing-critical jobs in DFO. This screening tool has adequate and well-defined psychometric properties (e.g. reliability, sensitivity, and validity) so that screening test results can be used to predict an individual's ability to perform critical auditory skills in noisy environments, with a known degree of prediction error. Important issues must be considered when setting screening criteria. First, the concept of hearing-critical tasks must be reviewed, since these tasks are often performed in high noise levels where normally-hearing people cannot hear adequately. Second, noise-induced hearing loss is frequent in these noisy environments, and workers who acquire a hearing loss might not continue to meet the minimal auditory screening criteria throughout their career. Other senses (e.g., vision, touch) also play an important role in these environments. Third, adaptation strategies have to be considered when recruits or incumbents fail the screening test.
14970882	[Studies on the chemical structure of polysaccharide CDP-4 isolated from Cistanche deserticola]	OBJECTIVE: To study the chemical structure of polysaccharide CDP-4 isolated from Cistanche deserticola Y.C.Ma. METHODS: The chemical properties of CDP-4 were determined by using chemical method and spectrocospic method. RESULTS: CDP-4 was composed of glucosyl group, with the ratio 1,4-linkage glcp:1,6-linkage glcp=3:1,and its mean molecular weight 1.4 x 10(4). By means of methlylation analysis, complete acid hydrolysis analysis, NMR spectrum, the linkages and sequence information of CDP-4 were obtained. CONCLUSION: CDP-4 is a new linear glucan.
14972599	But I thought it was Mickey Mouse: the effects of new postevent information on 18-month-olds' memory.	Two experiments examined the effects of postevent information on 18-month-olds' event memory. Experiment 1 (N=60) explored whether children's memory was reinstated when action information was eliminated from the reinstatement and only object information was introduced. Experiment 2 (N=48) examined children's recall when either (a). information about the objects' target actions was replaced with new action information or (b). the original training objects were replaced with new objects. In an elicited-imitation paradigm, children were trained to perform six target actions, watched a video reinstatement 10 weeks later, and were tested for recall 24 h after reinstatement. Two results were found. First, a video reminder eliminating action information reinstated children's memory as effectively as a video containing object and action information. Second, children were reminded of their past training when during reinstatement action information was preserved and new objects were presented but were not reminded when object information was preserved and new actions were presented.
14976016	CrossNets: high-performance neuromorphic architectures for CMOL circuits.	The exponential, Moore's Law, progress of electronics may be continued beyond the 10-nm frontier if the currently dominant CMOS technology is replaced by hybrid CMOL circuits combining a silicon MOSFET stack and a few layers of parallel nanowires connected by self-assembled molecular electronic devices. Such hybrids promise unparalleled performance for advanced information processing, but require special architectures to compensate for specific features of the molecular devices, including low voltage gain and possible high fraction of faulty components. Neuromorphic networks with their defect tolerance seem the most natural way to address these problems. Such circuits may be trained to perform advanced information processing including (at least) effective pattern recognition and classification. We are developing a family of distributed crossbar network (CrossNet) architectures that permit the combination of high connectivity neuromorphic circuits with high component density. Preliminary estimates show that this approach may eventually allow us to place a cortex-scale circuit with about 10(10) neurons and about 10(14) synapses on an approximately 10 x 10 cm(2) silicon wafer. Such systems may provide an average cell-to-cell latency of about 20 nsec and, thus, perform information processing and system training (possibly including self-evolution after initial training) at a speed that is approximately six orders of magnitude higher than in its biological prototype and at acceptable power dissipation.
14977242	Personality traits and stress sensitivity in migraine patients.	A review of the literature on migraine and personality yielded strong evidence for secondary neuroticism and increased sensitivity to stress in patients with migraine. This study focused on the identification of specific stressful situations and coping strategies in such patients. We conducted a psychodiagnostic study of 30 migraine patients in accordance with the criteria of the Headache Classification Committee of the International Headache Society and 30 healthy control subjects matched for age, sex, and social status. All participants completed the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) and special questionnaires on stressful situations and coping strategies. The migraine patients had higher neuroticism and introversion scores on the MMPI than the healthy subjects. There was a positive correlation between the neuroticism score and headache duration (number of hours per week). The patients used coping strategies characterized by the development of physical symptoms, social isolation, and preoccupation with stress. They rated themselves as less calm, less capable of relaxing, and more irritable than did the healthy controls subjects, and they responded more often with internal tension, especially in work and other achievement situations. Questionnaires that measure constructs dealing with stress yield information that is more relevant for the treatment of migraines than do global personality tests.
14977420	Interpreting the BOLD signal.	The development of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has brought together a broad community of scientists interested in measuring the neural basis of the human mind. Because fMRI signals are an indirect measure of neural activity, interpreting these signals to make deductions about the nervous system requires some understanding of the signaling mechanisms. We describe our current understanding of the causal relationships between neural activity and the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal, and we review how these analyses have challenged some basic assumptions that have guided neuroscience. We conclude with a discussion of how to use the BOLD signal to make inferences about the neural signal.
14979457	Benefits of breastfeeding.	Infants who are breastfed experience fewer incidences of infectious and noninfectious diseases and less severe cases of diarrhea, respiratory infections, and ear infections. This article reviews the benefits to mother and child of breastfeeding and provides information for situations in which breastfeeding should not be implemented.
14981358	Reduced medial olivocochlear bundle system function in children with auditory processing disorders.	A common complaint of children with auditory processing disorders (APD) is difficulty in understanding speech in the presence of background noise. Evidence from animal and human studies has suggested that the medial olivocochlear bundle (MOCB) may play a role in hearing in noise. The MOCB function can be evaluated by the suppression effect of the transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAE) in response to contralateral acoustic stimulation (CAS). The present study was conducted to investigate the suppression effect of TEOAE in APD children. The study groups comprised 15 APD children aged 8-13 years associated with learning disabilities and 15 controls matched for gender and age. The suppression effect of TEOAE was evaluated by comparing the TEOAE levels with and without CAS. A significantly reduced suppression effect of TEOAE was demonstrated in the APD group, when compared to the controls. In addition, higher TEOAE levels were found in the APD group, suggesting inherent reduced MOCB activity on the outer hair cells in APD children. These results imply that some APD children present low activity of the MOCB system, which may indicate a reduced auditory inhibitory function and affect their ability to hear in the presence of background noise.
14983572	A comparison study of the utilization of National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines by cardiology and internal medicine practices: implications for the advanced practice nurse.	PURPOSE: To determine whether patients with hypercholesterolemia were being treated according to the updated 2001 National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) clinical guidelines and whether a difference existed between internists and cardiologists in the implementation of these guidelines. DATA SOURCES: This retrospective study used data obtained from a review of 200 patient charts that were compared with the NCEP guidelines. CONCLUSIONS: Results indicated that 67% of internal medicine patients and 71% of cardiology patients who qualified for pharmaceutical treatment received prescriptions for cholesterol-lowering medications. The difference between internal medicine and cardiology physicians was not statistically significant. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Like physicians, nurse practitioners should become familiar with and utilize the updated guidelines as standards of practice to promote and improve patient outcomes over the life span.
14983660	Balloon valvuloplasty for critical aortic stenosis in two infants.	Critical aortic valve stenosis (AS) is a difficult clinical condition. Besides supportive medical care, relief of the stenosis is most important to the patients' survival. We present two cases using transcatheter balloon valvuloplasty in managing critical AS in young infants. Case 1 was a 2 month-old female infant. She presented with cardiopulmonary failure. Aortic annulus was 8 mm and the aortic valve was dilated with a 6 mm and then an 8 mm diameter balloon. The pressure gradient was reduced from 83 to 13 mmHg. Case 2 was a 7 day-old male infant. Aortic annulus was 6.7 mm and the aortic valve was dilated with a 6 mm diameter balloon. The pressure gradient was reduced from 87 to 44 mmHg. Both patients tolerated the procedure well. No major complications developed except that a transient weak femoral pulse was noted in case 1. In our limited experience, balloon valvuloplasty is a safe and effective therapeutic choice for managing critical AS in young infants. The advantages include no need of bypass or general anesthesia, shortened hospital course, reduced exposure to blood product, and no scar.
14987154	Chronic abdominal pain caused by heterotopic ossification with functioning bone marrow: a case report and review of the literature.	Heterotopic ossification is rarely seen after midline abdominal surgery. The etiology of heterotopic ossification is unknown. Although it is well recognized that heterotopic ossification may contain osteogenic cells and/or hematopoietic cells, to our knowledge, no case has ever been reported to have histologic evidence of hematopoiesis. We report the occurrence of heterotopic bone with bone marrow showing normal trilineage hematopoiesis in the incision scar of a woman who underwent gastric reduction surgery for the treatment of obesity. The literature regarding heterotopic ossification and extramedullary hematopoiesis is reviewed in this report, and discussion focuses on the mechanism of this pathophysiologic process.
14988118	matchprobes: a Bioconductor package for the sequence-matching of microarray probe elements.	SUMMARY: The nucleotide sequences of the probes on a microarray can be used for a variety of purposes in the analysis of microarray experiments. We describe software and a paradigm for the creation of data packages for curating, distributing and working with probe sequence data in a uniform, across-types-of-microarrays manner. While the implementation is specific to the Bioconductor project, the ideas and general strategies are more general and could be easily adopted by other projects. AVAILABILITY: The R package matchprobes is available under LGPL at http://www.bioconductor.org SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The package contains documentation in the form of a vignette and manual pages.
14994887	The views and attitudes of parents of children with a sensory impairment towards orthodontic care.	A questionnaire was sent to the parents of 77 visually impaired (VI), 210 hearing impaired (HI) and 494 control children seeking their views on their child's dental appearance, orthodontic treatment need and issues that might influence the child undertaking treatment. The parents' views were compared with a dentist's assessment of treatment need using the Index of Orthodontic Treatment Need (IOTN). There was disagreement between the dentist's assessment and the parents' perceptions in all groups. However, the least disagreement was seen in the HI group. There was a statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05) association between control and HI parents' views of their children's treatment needs and their opinion on their dental appearance. Most parents thought that orthodontic treatment was difficult to obtain and expensive and that their child would find difficulty coping with the treatment. Furthermore, parents of VI children considered that treatment was unlikely to be undertaken due to their child's reduced concern for their appearance. The study indicates that the awareness of treatment need for VI and HI children differs between their parents and dentists.
14995251	Nanotube surface arrays: weaving, bending, and assembling on patterned silicon.	We report the fabrication of ordered arrays of oriented and bent carbon nanotube on a patterned silicon surface with a micron scale spacing extending over millimeter size surface areas. We suggest that the patterning is controlled by the hydrodynamic behavior of a fluid front and orientation and bending mechanisms are facilitated by the pinned carbon nanotubes trapped by the liquid-solid-vapor contact line. The bending of the pinned nanotubes occurs along the shrinking receding front of the drying microdroplets. The formation of stratified microfluidic layers is vital for stimulating periodic instabilities of the contact line.
15000138	Improving disturbance rejection of PI controllers by means of the magnitude optimum method.	The magnitude optimum (MO) method provides a relatively fast and nonoscillatory closed-loop tracking response for a large class of process models frequently encountered in the process and chemical industries. However, the deficiency of the method is poor disturbance rejection when controlling low-order processes. In this paper, the MO criterion is modified in order to optimize disturbance rejection performance, while the tracking performance has been improved by an integral set-point filtering PI controller structure. The new tuning rules, referred to as the disturbance rejection magnitude optimum (DRMO) method, were applied to several different two-degrees-of-freedom PI controllers. The DRMO method has also been tested on several different representatives of process models. The results of experiments have shown that the proposed tuning method with the integral set-point filtering PI controller is quite efficient in improving disturbance rejection performance, while retaining tracking performance comparable to the original MO method.
15000409	On the analysis of quasi-life tables.	Baxter (1994) defined a quasi-life table in which the data arise from many concurrent, independent, discrete-time renewal processes. The processes are not observed individually, only the total numbers of renewals at each time point are observed. The estimates proposed by Baxter (1994), based on the discrete-time renewal equation, are studied more formally here, and some extensions are made.
15001693	New automated physical phantom for renography.	Physical phantoms have been used to test the diagnostic proficiency of nuclear medicine professionals and the accuracy of their equipment in external quality assurance surveys. No dynamic renal phantoms are commercially available. A new renal phantom, presented in this paper, was constructed and patented in the United States. METHODS: The organs to be simulated by the phantom were in the form of containers filled with radioactive solution, and the device further comprised movable steel and lead plates between the containers and the gamma-camera. The detectable radiation was regulated in accordance with automated computer-controlled step motors to move the attenuators to simulate a given patient situation. The reproducibility of the phantom measurements was defined as a coefficient of variation. Four different kidney-function simulations were repeated 3 times, and 6 parameters were compared. RESULTS: The average root mean square deviation of the coefficient of variation was 6.7% for the perfusion integral, 1.3% for time to reach the maximum activity, 19.7% for mean transit time, 3.3% for function (Patlak [%]), 1.0% for outflow index (%), and 6.5% for time to reach the half-activity from maximum. CONCLUSION: With this phantom, the true values of most parameters measured are well known; it closely approaches true extraction, washout, and attenuation properties and curves, and the images produced are similar to those of patient studies. Compared with the first manual version, this new automated phantom is easy to use. Any desired clinical situation can be programmed. It is a promising tool for quality assurance and calibration of renography.
15008295	Knowledge about coronary artery disease among patients admitted to Aseer Central Hospital with acute coronary syndrome.	BACKGROUND: Coronary Artery Disease is a major killer worldwide. Level of education about this important health problem is unknown in our local population. METHODS: A pre-tested questionnaire was used to identify the level of education about CAD in all consecutive patients admitted to Aseer Central Hospital with the diagnosis of Acute coronary syndrome for the period (Jan. 2000 - Feb. 2001). RESULTS: We found the level of knowledge in the majority of patients was poor, the older and the less educated patients had a lower level of knowledge. The patients showed improved level of knowledge during their stay in the hospital. CONCLUSION: Our cardiac patients have poor knowledge about their disease and improvement on this level of education is needed.
15008651	Appearing truthful generalizes across different deception situations.	The authors investigated whether the ability to appear truthful is specific to deception situations. Male participants were interrogated after they took part in 2 high-stake deception situations, one involving a mock crime and another involving a false opinion. The videotaped interrogations from each situation were shown to independent groups of undergraduate observers. The proportion of observers who judged each participant as truthful in one situation correlated highly with the proportion of observers who judged the same participant as truthful in the other situation. This was not correlated with physiognomy judgments. Follow-up studies revealed that although the participants showed consistency in their facial, body, and paralinguistic behaviors across situations, observers' judgments seemed to be driven only by the consistency of the dynamic facial behaviors. These results are discussed in terms of the evolutionary importance of the face in communication.
15011280	Basic principles of the KIV model and its application to the navigation problem.	EEG measurements indicate the presence of common-mode, coherent oscillations shared by multiple cortical areas. In previous studies the KIII model has been introduced, which interprets the experimental observations as nonlinear, spatially distributed dynamical oscillations of locally coupled neural populations. KIII can account for the fast and robust classification and pattern recognition in sensory cortices. In order to describe selection of action, planning, and spatial orientation functions, in this paper we expand KIII into the KIV model. KIV approximates the operation of the corticostriatal-hippocampal system. KIV consists of three KI, eight KII and three KIII components, including sensory and cortical systems, as well as the hippocampus, amygdala, and the septum. KIV implements various types of dynamic neural activities. The neural activity patterns determine the emergence of global spatial encoding to implement the orientation function of a simulated animal. Our results indicate the mechanisms, which we believe support the generation of cognitive maps in the hippocampus based on the sensory input-based destabilization of cortical spatio-temporal patterns. In this paper, we describe the conceptual design of the KIV model. We outline the biological background and motivation of the basic principles that are applied to design the KIV computational model. We use the KIV model to explain how the hippocampal neural circuitry functions are constructed and controlled by the corticostriatal-hippocampal loops, supplemented with specific subcortical units. In the second part, we implement these principles using the example of the hippocampal formation as a KIII unit. We demonstrate the learning and navigation principles using the Evolving Multi-module Mobile Agent (EMMA) in 2D software environment.
15011423	[Anesthetic management of the surgical patients with complete left bundle branch block]	For last ten years twenty three cases of anesthesia were performed in twenty surgical patients with complete left bundle branch block (CLBBB) ranging in ages from 58 to 82 years. The CLBBB in these patients included 16 cases of permanent block, 6 cases of transient block and one case of alternative block. Two of these patients had no past history of heart disease, but the remaining patients had hypertension, ischemic heart disease, cardiomegaly, cardiac hypertrophy or others. Transient episodes of CLBBB were detected on the preoperative examination, on arrival at operating room or after the emergence from anesthesia at a recovery room, and some of which were provoked by elevated blood pressure or increased heart rate. A transient CLBBB in the patient changed to permanent CLBBB two years later. Complete atrioventricular (A-V) block appeared suddenly in the patient with alternative CLBBB four months after the surgery. Complete A-V block did not develop during anesthesia and surgery in our patients with CLBBB. Therefore we consider a routine prophylactic temporary pacemaker is not necessary during anesthesia and surgery in patients with asymptomatic CLBBB. However, a temporary pacemaker equipment should be at hand in case of complete A-V block. Appropriate perioperative management of circulatory system is important for the patients with CLBBB because most of these patients have underlying heart disease.
15012007	Acoustic rhinometry measurements in stepped-tube models of the nasal cavity.	Stepped-tube models with a constriction in the anterior section were used to evaluate the effects that nasal valve passage area and nasal cavity shape have on acoustic rhinometry (AR) measurements. The AR-determined cross-sectional areas beyond a constriction of small passage area were consistently underestimated, and the corresponding area-distance curves showed pronounced oscillations. Also, the AR technique did not accurately reproduce abrupt changes in passage area. The results suggest that, regardless of the particular shape of the nasal cavity model, AR does not provide reliable information about cross-sectional areas posterior to a severe constriction. The experimental results are discussed in terms of theoretically calculated acoustic input impedance for the models studied, the physical limitations of AR, and assumptions made in AR algorithms. The study demonstrated that energy losses and sound wave attenuation due to air viscosity do not significantly affect AR measurements. It was also shown that passage area beyond a severe constriction is underestimated because the barrier created by the constriction reflects most of the incident sound power. The results also indicate that the oscillations in area-distance curves are due to low-frequency acoustic resonances in the nasal cavity model.
15015702	Spatial modeling of harvest constraints on wood supply versus wildlife habitat objectives.	We studied the effects of spatial and temporal timber harvesting constraints on competing objectives of sustaining wildlife habitat supply and meeting timber harvest objectives in a boreal mixedwood forest. A hierarchical modeling approach was taken, where strategic and tactical level models were used to project blocking and scheduling of harvest blocks. Harvest block size and proximity, together with short- and long-term temporal constraints, were adjusted in a factorial manner to allow creation of response-surface models. A new measure of the habitat mosaic was defined to describe the emergent pattern of habitat across the landscape. These models, together with multiple linear regression, were used to provide insight on convergence or divergence between spatial objectives. For example, green-up delay (defined as time required before a harvest block adjacent to a previously logged block can be scheduled for harvest) had an adverse effect on the amount of annual harvest area that could be allocated and blocked spatially, and habitat supply responded in an opposite direction to that of wood supply, where caribou, moose wintering, and marten habitat supply increased when harvest blocks were further apart, maximum block size smaller, and both a green-up delay and mesoscale stratification were applied. Although there was no &quot;solution space&quot; free of conflicts, the analysis suggests that application of the mesoscale stratification, together with a diversity of harvest block sizes and a between-harvest block proximity of 250 m, will perform relatively well with respect to wood supply objectives, and at the same time create a less fragmented landscape that better reflects natural forest patterns.
15015895	Hohenheimer Consensus Talk. Oxidative and premature skin ageing.	To elucidate the scientific state of the art with respect to the role of nutrition in skin ageing, nine experts from different disciplines discussed the role of micronutrients on 'oxidative and premature skin ageing'. In this 25th Hohenheim Consensus Meeting, 13 questions were discussed and, based on published valid data, answered by mutual agreement. The consensus answers achieved during the meeting are justified by a scientific background text. The importance of in vitro and in vivo models regarding oxidative and premature skin ageing was critically evaluated. There was a special focus on prevention and intervention of skin ageing with nutrition. Finally, the paper summarizes the scientific background from different areas related to oxidative and premature skin ageing.
15016501	Total blubber burden of organochlorine pollutants in phocid seals; methods and suggested standardization.	The purpose of the present paper was to investigate methods for calculating the total blubber burden of organochlorine pollutants (OCs) in phocid seals. Harp seals (Phoca groenlandica) were used as the model species. A sample of fat pre-breeding adult females (N = 9) and a sample of thin moulting adult females (N = 7) were collected. From each animal blubber samples from five different body sites (complete blubber columns and samples from different blubber layers), in addition to a sample from a homogenate derived from the entire blubber mass, were analyzed for selected OCs. Significant differences in the concentrations of major OC contaminants were found between inner and outer blubber layer. Within each seal group, no significant difference in OC concentrations was found between homogenates from whole blubber columns from the five different sites of the animals or when comparing these with the OC concentrations found in the blubber sample deriving from a homogenate of the entire blubber mass. When comparing the two seal groups, the mean OC concentrations were significantly higher in the thin seals. However, blubber burden of OCs measured directly and calculated indirectly were not significantly different, and did not vary between the two groups of seals. Since these seals are of the same age and sex group and from the same population, this is not an unexpected result. The present results suggest that comparison of blubber concentrations of OCs in phocid seals should be avoided, especially when comparing differences between geographical areas or for time-trend analyses. For this type of study, we suggest that the blubber burden of OCs is applied as standard in the future. Furthermore, since blubber depth at a specific sampling site is required when using the estimator for calculation of the percent blubber content in phocid seals (the LMD-index), we suggest that this sampling site (central dorsally) is introduced as a standard when sampling blubber for OC analyses in phocid seals.
15016661	The use of N-t-butyl hydroxylamine for radioprotection in cultured cells and mice.	Exposure of cells to ionizing radiation leads to formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that are associated with radiation-induced cytotoxicity. Therefore, compounds that scavenge ROS may confer radioprotective effects. Recently, it has been shown that the decomposition product of the spin-trapping agent alpha-phenyl-N-t-butylnitrone (PBN), N-t-butyl hydroxylamine (NtBHA), mimics PBN and is much more potent in delaying ROS-associated senescence. We investigated the protective role of NtBHA against ionizing radiation in U937 cells and mice. Viability and cellular oxidative damage reflected by lipid peroxidation, oxidative DNA damage and protein oxidation were significantly lower in the cells treated with NtBHA when the cells were exposed to ionizing radiation. The modulation of cellular redox status was more pronounced in control cells compared with NtBHA-treated cells. The ionizing radiation-induced mitochondrial damage reflected by the altered mitochondrial permeability transition, the increase in the accumulation of ROS and the reduction of ATP production was significantly higher in control cells compared with NtBHA-treated cells. NtBHA administration before irradiation at 5 mg/kg daily for 2 weeks provided substantial protection against killing and oxidative damage to mice exposed to whole-body irradiation. These data indicate that NtBHA may have great application potential as a new class of in vivo, non-sulfur containing radiation protector.
15017042	Quantification of ribozyme target RNA using real-time PCR.	An important part of the ribozyme efficiency-screening process is to have a fast and accurate way to measure steady-state levels of the target RNA. Here, we describe the use of real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for quantification of ribozyme target transcripts. In contrast to classical quantitative PCR, real-time PCR does not require extensive manipulation or generation of relatively complex reagents, thus reducing the risk of contamination. PCR products generated by Taq polymerase in the presence of SYBR Green dye I can be monitored each cycle by collecting fluorescence signals emitted only as the double-stranded DNA is formed. The temperature at which the fluorescent data used for quantification are collected is based on the melting-curve analysis of the amplified product. After constructing a standard curve by plotting the log of the standards' copy number vs their fractional cycle number, the copy number of the unknown samples is automatically determined by interpolation of this curve. However it is very important to validate the melting curve profile with standard gel electrophoresis, particularly while setting up the technique. Real-time PCR is fast and reproducible. Excluding the isolation of RNA and synthesis of cDNA, the results can be obtained in less than 1 h. The coefficient of variance is 15% in the range of 104-106 gene copies.
15019856	[Surgical exposure of visceral arteries]	Surgery of visceral arteries is mainly indicated for ostial and juxtaostial atherosclerosis of the celiac axis and superior mesenteric arteries. Their surgical exposures are often difficult because of their deepness.
15021986	Diagnostic telepathology: long-term experience of a single institution.	OBJECTIVES: The paper reviews the development of the application of telepathology in a department of surgical pathology between 1991 and 2003. The goal of the efforts during this time was to give up the concept of programming a single application, available only between two fixed workstations with sophisticated devices and special software, and to find the virtual &quot;largest common denominator&quot; for implementing as many different applications as possible with the same basic system. METHODS: A new telepathology system was designed as a client-server system with a relational database at its centre. The clients interact together by transferring the questions (texts and images) to a record (case) in the database on the server and by transferring the answers to the same record on the database. RESULTS: The new &quot;open&quot; telepathology system iPath (http://telepath.patho.unibas.ch) has been very well accepted by many groups around the world. The main application fields are: consultations between pathologists and medical institutions without a pathologist (e.g. for frozen section diagnoses or for surgical diagnoses in hospitals in South Asia or Africa), tumour boards, field studies and distance education (http://teleteach.patho.unibas.ch). CONCLUSIONS: Having observed that with iPath we have succeeded in satisfying all our telepathology needs, we are inclined to put the emphasis on the nature of the tasks being performed, as opposed to the methods or technical means for performing a given task. The three organisation models proposed by Weinstein et al. (2001) can be reduced to only two models: the model of discussion groups and the model of expert groups (virtual institutes).
15026745	[Mohs' micrographic surgery: history, principles, critical analysis of its efficacy and indications]	OBJECTIVES: To systematically review the literature for studies reporting on the role of Mohs' micrographic (MMS) surgery in the treatment of skin tumors. To show how it is performed in France. DESIGN: We reviewed with a quality grid all studies indexed in MEDLINE before 2003/01/01 and published in English or French. Data were extracted by two independent reviewers. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality of clinical studies, recurrence rates, number of patients lost to follow-up. RESULTS: No randomized study was found among the 493 references found. Studies of lower quality, on procedures similar to MMS, or previous systematic reviews were therefore selected. In tumors such as basal (BCC) or spinous (SCC) cell carcinoma, microcystic adnexal carcinoma, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, and Merkel cell carcinoma, MMS commonly induced lower recurrence rates than figures reported for conventional treatments and/or reduced surgical margins. Studies on melanoma were of low quality. CONCLUSIONS: Although no evidence-based guidelines could be developed, MMS should be used mainly for larger, morphea, micronodular or infiltrative-type, or recurrent BCCs located in danger zones, but also (sometimes with a slightly modified procedure) in microcystic adnexal carcinomas, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, Merkel cell carcinoma, and in aggressive forms of SCC. Randomized, controlled studies should be performed.
15030144	Biological hydrogen production by enriched anaerobic cultures in the presence of copper and zinc.	Batch experiments were carried out to examine the productions of hydrogen and volatile fatty acids from glucose by enriched anaerobic culture in the presence of Cu and Zn. Results showed the specific hydrogen production rate was enhanced by the dosage of Cu at 50-100 mg/dm3 or the dosage of Zn at 10-250 mg/dm3, but was inhibited by Cu over 200 mg/dm3 or Zn at 500 mg/dm3. The hydrogen production yield was enhanced by Cu of 5-400 mg/dm3 or Zn of 5-500 mg/dm3. Productions of acetate and propionate were inhibited by Cu of 5-400 mg/dm3 or Zn of 5-500 mg/dm3. On the other hand, production of butyrate was stimulated, whereas production of ethanol was not affected. In terms of the CI,50 values. Cu was more toxic than Zn. The modified Gompertz equation was able to properly describe the cumulative hydrogen production in the presence of Cu or Zn.
15036011	Use of antioxidants to minimize the human health risk associated to mutagenic/carcinogenic heterocyclic amines in food.	Heterocyclic amines (HAs) are mutagenic/carcinogenic compounds formed in meat during cooking. Several efforts have been made to minimize the risk associated to HA human exposure. Supplementation with antioxidants is considered a promising measure to reduce HA exposure because of their ability as inhibitors of HA formation or as blocking/suppressing agents on HA biotransformation/metabolism. The aim of this review is to present the current knowledge on the capability of synthetic and natural antioxidants to modulate HA-induced mutagenicity/carcinogenicity. Data show a general trend towards a reduction of HA formation both in model systems and in real foods as well as an effective modulation of biotransformation and metabolism. Phenolic compounds, particularly those from tea and olive oil, seem to be the most effective, although a great variability is observed because of the concentration-dependent pro- and antioxidant effects.
15037645	On the nature of pre-freeze mortality in insects: water balance, ion homeostasis and energy charge in the adults of Pyrrhocoris apterus.	Three acclimation groups [i.e. non-diapause (LD), diapause (SD) and diapause, cold-acclimated (SDA)] of the adult bugs Pyrrhocoris apterus differed markedly in their levels of chill tolerance. Survival time at a sub-zero, but non-freezing, temperature of -5 degrees C (Lt50) extended from 7.6 days, through 35.6 days, to >60 days in the LD, SD and SDA insects, respectively. The time necessary for recovery after chill-coma increased linearly with the increasing time of exposure to -5 degrees C, and the steepness of the slope of linear regression decreased in the order LD>SD>SDA. The capacity to prevent/counteract leakage of Na(+) down the electrochemical gradient (from haemolymph to tissues) during the exposure to -5 degrees C increased in the order LD&lt;SD&lt;SDA. As a result, the rates of counteractive outward movement of K(+), and of the E(K) dissipation, decreased in the same order. The least chill-tolerant insects (LD) showed the highest rate of body-water loss. Most of the water was lost from the haemolymph compartment. The ability to regulate a certain fraction of ion pools into the hindgut fluid was the highest in the SDA group, medium in the SD group and missing in the LD group. The adenylate energy charge in the fat body cells was constant in all three groups. The total pools of ATP, ADP and AMP, however, decreased in the SD and SDA groups but remained constant in the LD group. The inability of insects to maintain ion gradients at sub-zero temperature is discussed as an important cause of pre-freeze mortality.
15038482	Renal cell carcinoma metastatic to the choroid mimicking intraventricular meningioma.	BACKGROUND: Metastatic renal cell carcinoma to the choroid plexus is a rare condition and can be easily confused with meningioma. METHODS: A 61-year-old female presented with progressive neurologic deterioration and MRI findings of obstructive hydrocephalus and a homogeneously contrast enhancing 3 cm oval mass in the trigone of the left lateral ventricle. RESULTS: Despite radiologic, intraoperative gross features, and frozen pathology all consistent with meningioma, the final pathology revealed metastatic renal cell carcinoma. CONCLUSION: Renal cell carcinoma metastatic to the choroid plexus can mimic intraventricular meningioma. We present a review of the literature and comparison of the radiological features of meningiomas and metastatic renal cell carcinoma. We also discuss the use of an under-utilized technique, the contralateral transcallosal approach, in the surgical treatment of this intraventricular lesion.
15053306	Metastatic-associated biological properties and differential gene expression profiles in established highly liver and peritoneal metastatic cell lines of human pancreatic cancer.	To elucidate metastasis mechanisms, we established a Panc-1H5 subline with a highly liver metastatic cell line and a Panc-1P4a with a highly peritoneal metastatic cell line, which were sequentially selected from the parental pancreatic cancer cell line Panc-1. Using these three cell lines, we investigated several biological properties and mRNA levels of differentially-expressed genes involved in cancer metastasis with a cDNA macroarray. The tumorigenicity, motile activity, adhesive activity and cytokine production of metastatic sublines were higher than those of parental Panc-1 cells. Particularly, in Panc-1H5 cells, adhesive activity to the extracellular matrix and angiogenetic factors increased, whereas in Panc-1P4a cells, motile activity was extremely enhanced compared with Panc-1 cells. Histopathological findings for the three cell lines were the same. In cDNA macroarray analysis of Panc-1H5 cells, 11 genes were up-regulated and 20 genes were down-regulated compared with parental Panc-1 cells. In Panc-1P4a cells, 7 genes were up-regulated and 13 genes were down-regulated compared with parental Panc-1 cells. This study provides a demonstration of global gene expression analysis of pancreatic cancer cells with liver and peritoneal metastasis and these results provide new insight into the study of human pancreatic cancer metastasis.
15055102	[Osteopathy in diabetic foot syndrome]	Morphological characteristics of bone tissues were studied in the feet of patients with diabetes mellitus type 1 and 2 (DM1 and DM2). Osteoblasts and osteoclasts prevalence, the presence of collagen type III in the composition of newly formed bone were characteristic for DM1. Osteocytes prevalence and abundant granulation tissue in newly formed bone was a feature of DM2. The analysis of bone tissue resorption suggests that lacunar osteoclastic resorpsion is the main type in DM1 while periosteocytic osteolysis and smooth resorption are typical for DM2. Thus, osteolysis genesis and synthesis of bone tissue in DM1 and DM2 may be different.
15057468	Relative susceptibilities to vancomycin and quinupristin-dalfopristin of adhered and planktonic vancomycin-resistant and vancomycin-susceptible coagulase-negative staphylococci.	Quinupristin-dalfopristin, a novel streptogramin antibiotic, has proven efficacious against multi-drug-resistant, Gram-positive bacteria, particularly glycopeptide-resistant coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS), and CoNS within biofilms. We examined its activity, along with the glycopeptide antibiotic vancomycin, against laboratory-derived, vancomycin-resistant (van R) CoNS and their vancomycin-susceptible (van S) parent strains, both in the planktonic state and after their adhesion to silicone urinary catheters. The laboratory-derived van R CoNS displayed lower adhesion and biofilm formation capabilities than did their van S parent strains. Compared with silicone, the adhesion to hydrogel-silver urinary catheters was approximately one log lower for both van R and van S CoNS. Adhesion of van R and van S CoNS to silicone catheters increased their tolerance to vancomycin. However, adhered van R CoNS succumbed to concentrations of quinupristin-dalfopristin markedly (16- to 32-fold) lower than adhered van S CoNS. This anomaly may be due to the presence of vancomycin sequestered in the cell wall of van R CoNS. Quinupristin-dalfopristin in combination with vancomycin may provide enhanced inhibitory effects against van R CoNS in the adhered state.
15065352	[Quality of community-based healthcare services]	The recent concern regarding the quality of healthcare services is partly due to the empowerment of health consumers, cost containment measures that may compromise quality, increased complexity of the medical practice and the accelerated growth of data on the magnitude and extent of quality problems. The framework of the delivery of health services, including quality parameters, differs fundamentally in the community as opposed to the hospital setting. In the community, the episode of care lacks geographic and temporal boundaries, and is divided among different facilities and caregivers. Hence, the healthcare systems lack control over the management of care. In the solo practice, the physician lacks the opportunity to discuss and share medical decisions with his/her peers and physician's reimbursement does not encourage him/her to invest time and effort in the provision of quality care. Furthermore, in the community setting, the patient is expected to take responsibility for compliance to the therapeutic regimen, a condition that may frequently interfere with regular life routines. Therefore, quality promotion should embody the &quot;quality triangle&quot; encompassing patients, caregivers, the healthcare system and appropriate interfaces. Ideally, the voice of the health consumer should be an integral consideration in the design of health policy, care should be patient-centered and physician reimbursement should reflect the quality of care provided. In addition, the design of the healthcare system information technology in supporting decision-making and training &quot;quality leaders&quot; to facilitate quality improvement programs. Consequently, it is pivotal to nurture agreement among policy-makers, patients and caregivers as to the essence of the dilemma: &quot;What is quality in community care?&quot; Meanwhile, we may suggest a primordial definition to community-based health care quality management: An ongoing multidisciplinary effort to identify and respond to the needs of patients, by providing systemic infrastructure that will support the caregivers and help in achieving better outcomes in the six basic dimensions of quality care-safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable and patient-centered. In conclusion, in light of the medical activities conducted in the community, and the prevalent and ever-growing shortage of resources, there is a need to integrate efforts to develop and implement both unique tools and strategies to manage quality in community-based health services.
15070003	Straight-ahead pointing correlates with long-line bisection in neglect patients.	The spatial bias of neglect patients has been assumed to result from the alteration of a body-centred representation which underlies actions within personal and extra-personal spaces. This deficit seems to correspond to the ipsilesional deviation of the subjective straight-ahead (SSA), often described in neglect patients. However, several recent studies have failed to show significant correlations between the SSA deviation and performance in standard visuo-spatial tests of neglect. Since methodological choices could explain these negative results, the present study re-investigated the question. SSA, assessed by manual pointing, was anchored by instructions to a precise median body part. A body-centred line bisection task was also carried out, during the same session and in similar experimental conditions. Sixteen right brain-damaged patients with (n = 8) or without (n = 8) neglect, and 8 control subjects free of any neurological problem were included. Taken as a group, the neglect group stood out from the others in both tasks. Moreover, in neglect patients only, SSA position significantly correlated with bisection error for long lines, even if dissociations between SSA shift and bisection error were found in two cases. Results are discussed with regard to the nature of the tasks proposed in the different studies and to methodological aspects that could at least partly explain the aforementioned failures.
15072942	Interaction forces, deformation and nano-rheology of emulsion droplets as determined by colloid probe AFM.	Atomic force microscopy (AFM) has been used to determine the interaction forces between a spherical silica probe and immobilised colloidal droplets of polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) in aqueous solution. Under mildly alkaline conditions where PDMS droplets and the silica probe are both negatively charged, a repulsive force is evident that increases less rapidly on surface approach than expected for electrical double layer interaction of rigid particles. The departure from hard-sphere behaviour enables the extent of droplet deformation to be determined and by varying the extent of internal cross-linking within the PDMS droplets, the influence of bulk rheology and interfacial tension on droplet deformation and nano-rheology has been isolated. For highly cross-linked droplets, the extent of deformation is controlled by the bulk rheology rather than the droplet's interfacial properties. Upon retraction of the surfaces, force curve hysteresis is observed and is due to the viscoelastic response of the PDMS. The extent of hysteresis is dependent on the rate of approach/retraction and the loading force, and has been theoretically fitted to obtain nano-rheological parameters, which describe the droplet relaxation processes. For liquid-like droplets, with a low level of cross-linking, no force curve hysteresis is observed and the elastic deformation may be described by a single spring constant. The spring constant is proportional to the surface tension (as controlled by surfactant adsorption) and the reciprocal of the droplet radius, i.e. the Laplace pressure exclusively controls droplet deformation. These colloid probe AFM studies offer due insight into the deformation and interaction of emulsion droplets and have implications when considering the stability, adhesion and processing of emulsions.
15078049	Memory for how one learned of multiple deaths from AIDS: repeated exposure and distinctiveness.	Studies of memories for the circumstances in which an emotional event was learned of have generally explored isolated, single-occurrence events--for example, the Kennedy assassination. Such factors as the event's distinctiveness, its personal importance, its surprise, the elicited emotional change, and overt rehearsal have been posited as predictors of the memory's vividness and elaborateness. We examined whether these predictor variables would apply to a repeated trauma, using the repeated nature of the trauma to test, in particular, the contribution of distinctiveness. Focusing on the multiple deaths of loved ones from AIDS that many gay men have experienced, we contrasted the vividness and elaborateness of the circumstantial memory of the first death encountered with that of the most recent death, treating distinctiveness as the number of intervening deaths. In an analysis of responses by 80 gay men to a survey, no support was found for the claim that distinctiveness predicts a circumstantial memory's vividness or elaborateness. Only emotional change predicted these characteristics of the memories.
15081931	Simultaneous quantification of the new HIV protease inhibitors atazanavir and tipranavir in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	We have developed and validated an assay, using liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), for the quantification of the novel protease inhibitors (PIs) atazanavir and tipranavir. The sample pre-treatment consisted of protein precipitation with a mixture of methanol and acetronitrile using 100 microl plasma for atazanavir and 50 microl for tipranavir. Chromatographic separation was achieved on an Inertsil ODS3 column (50 mm x 2.0 mm i.d., particle size 5 microm), with a quick stepwise gradient using an acetate buffer (pH 5) and methanol, at a flow rate of 0.5 ml/min. The analytical run time was 5.5 min. The triple quadrupole mass spectrometer operated in the positive ion-mode and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) was used for drug quantification. The assay was linear over a concentration range of 0.05-10 microg/ml for atazanavir and 0.1-75 microg/ml for tipranavir. Saquinavir-d5 was used as internal standard. The intra- and inter-day coefficients of variation were less than 3.8% for atazanavir and less than 10.4% for tipranavir. Accuracies were within +/-7.3 and +/-7.2% for atazanavir and tipranavir, respectively. Both drugs were stable under various relevant storage conditions. The validated concentration ranges proved to be adequate to measure concentrations of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1)-infected individuals. The developed method could easily be combined with a previously developed LC-MS/MS assay for the quantification of protease inhibitors.
15082897	Ultrastructural studies of gastrointestinal stromal tumors.	Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal tumors in the gastrointestinal tract (GIT). Although interstitial cells of Cajal has been suggested as origin of this tumor, the cytological and ultrastructural features of GISTs are heterogeneous and unclear. A total 10 cases of normal gastrointestinal tissue (control), 13 GISTs of the stomach (8), small intestine (3), mesocolon (1) and liver (1), and 2 gastrointestinal autonomic nervous tumor (GANT) of small intestine were ultrastructurally studied. Normal interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) were abundantly present around the myenteric plexuses or individually scattered through the wall of GIT. ICC was characterized by slender cytoplasmic processes, well-developed endoplasmic reticulum (ER), mitochondria, Golgi apparatus, caveolae and intermediate filaments. The GISTs and GANTs had overlapping ultrastructures. The most common and important ultrastructural features of GISTs were rich villous cytoplasmic processes, dispersed intermediate filaments and abundant SER, and those of GANTs were neurosecretory granules and skenoid fibers. Compared with ICC, the GISTs and GANTs had remarkably reduced caveolae and gap junctions. Our study suggested that ultrastructural analysis gives much information to investigate lineage differentiation of neoplastic cells and make a differential diagnosis of these tumors from other mesenchymal tumors and between GISTs and GANTs.
15083290	Sexuality in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and their partners.	Sexuality in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has received little attention so far. Although sexual function is not directly affected by the disease process, several patients have reported problems within their sexual relationship. We performed a questionnaire survey to ascertain the extent and clinical relevance of sexual problems experienced by patients with ALS and their partners. Of 91 patients and partners asked, 62 agreed to participate in the study. Compared with the time before disease onset, sexual interest had decreased from 72% to 44% for patients and from 78% to 44% for partners. Sexual activity had moderately decreased from 94% to 76% for the patients and from 100% to 79% for the partners. Before the disease, 19% of the patients and 20% of the partners reported sexual problems. This increased to 62% of the patients and 75% of the partners at time of survey. The problems reported were mainly decreased libido, passivity of the partner and own passivity. The most frequent reasons for these problems were the physical weakness and the body image changes due to ALS. The data show that sexuality is an important and problematic issue for a large proportion of ALS patients and their partners. This topic is rarely discussed in the medical setting. Counselling and information should be made available in order to better address this important aspect of quality of life.
15084039	Seroprevalence of equine herpesvirus 1 in mares and foals on a large Hunter Valley stud farm in years pre- and postvaccination.	OBJECTIVE: To examine the prevalence of equine herpesvirus 1 antibody in mares and foals on a large Hunter Valley Thoroughbred stud farm in New South Wales before and after the introduction of an inactivated whole virus vaccine. DESIGN: Cross-sectional serological surveys performed in February 1995 and 2000 to determine the prevalence of EHV-1 antibody-positive mares and foals. A further cross-sectional survey was carried out in 2001 to complement the 2000 data. STUDY POPULATION: Two hundred and twenty-nine mares and their foals were sampled in 1995 and 236 mares and their foals were sampled in 2000. The study population comprised all of the mares with foals at foot on this property at each sample period. Fifty mares were sampled in both studies. A further 264 mares and their foals were sampled in 2001. PROCEDURE: A blood sample was collected from each mare and foal at the beginning of February 1995, 2000 and 2001. Each sample was tested in triplicate using an antibody-detection ELISA that is type-specific for EHV-1 and EHV-4 antibodies. RESULTS: The prevalence of EHV-1 antibody-positive mares was not statistically different in 2000 compared to 1995. However, the prevalence of antibody-positive foals was significantly lower in 2000 than in 1995. In 2001, the prevalence of antibody-positive mares was higher than in 2000, but not different from that in 1995. The prevalence of antibody-positive foals in 2001 was not significantly different from the prevalence observed in 1995 or that observed in 2000. However, when the three studies were compared there was a significant variation in the prevalence of EHV-1 positive foals due to the variation between the 1995 and the 2000 data. CONCLUSIONS: Mares are the source of virus from which foals are infected early in life and following analysis of the 2001 data, the difference in the prevalence of EHV-1 antibody-positive foals between 1995 and 2000 was likely to be a reflection of seasonal, nutritional and management factors, rather than the result of vaccination.
15091406	Recent changes in levels of persistent organochlorines and mercury in eggs of seabirds from the Barents Sea.	Eggs of ten seabird species were collected from six regions in North Norway, Svalbard and NW Russia in 1993, and were analyzed for organochlorines (OCs) and mercury. Significant declines in levels of PCBs, p,p'-DDE, HCB, beta-HCH, gamma-HCH and oxychlordane were documented in nearly half the data set since a similar study in 1983 in six of the seabird species breeding in North Norway. Only four of the 90 paired data sets increased significantly, and the remainder remained unchanged. There was very little change in mercury levels. The decline in OCs corresponds to similar declines found in Canada and the Baltic Sea, and to declines documented in marine fish in a Norwegian fjord. They can all be attributed to the reduction in use and spread of contaminants, both in Norway and internationally. No consistent regional differences in residue levels were found.
15093040	Metallothionein induction and cadmium uptake in Bufo arenarum embryos following an acclimation protocol.	Bufo arenarum embryos at the end of their embryonic development were acclimated to cadmium (Cd) by means of a 10-day treatment protocol. Embryos were processed for metallothionein (Mt) isolation and Cd and zinc (Zn) contents were measured. The results showed that: (1) the uptake of Cd in the experimental embryos was 7 microg/g embryo (wet weight) representing a bioaccumulation of Cd 255 times higher than in the maintaining medium; (2) a major Mt-like fraction was Cd-induced 7.8 times that in control embryos; two other protein fractions also bound Cd and Zn but were induced by Cd only about 2 and 1.4 times; (3) the Zn concentration was about 44 microg Zn/g embryo (wet weight) and did not change significantly (p>0.01) in the experimental embryos with respect to controls, but in acclimated embryos the essential metal was released from the Mts. The enhanced Mt synthesis and release of Zn from the native Mts are discussed in relation to the acclimation phenomenon.
15101172	[Neural circuit of the cervical sympathetic nervous system with special reference to input and output of the cervical sympathetic ganglia: relationship between spinal cord and cervical sympathetic ganglia and that between cervical sympathetic ganglia and their target organs]	Using anterograde labeling technique with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L), we demonstrated the arborization pattern of a single preganglionic axon in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and stellate ganglion (STG). These axons expanded in the longitudinal direction, but not for transverse direction. Segmental relationship was identified between the spinal cord and STG, as seen between spinal cord and sympathetic ganglia in the thoraco-lumbar region, but we did not find any segmental relationship between the spinal cord and SCG. Some sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the lateral horn of the thoracic cord, especially in the intermediolateral nucleus (IML) have nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity. We demonstrated that SCG neurons, which were heavily innervated by these NOS-positive neurons, tended to innervate organs that have some secretory functional tissues. Finally, we showed that the size of neuronal somata does not correlate with the size of target organs, as has been reported in previous studies. We should consider that there are other factors determining the size of neuronal somata, such as the size of dendritic field or volumes of NGF secretory from target tissues.
15101431	Honeybee workers (Apis mellifera capensis) compete for producing queen-like pheromone signals.	Physical fights are the usual means of establishing dominance hierarchies in animal societies. This form of dominance behaviour is most strongly expressed in honeybee queens who engage in fights to the death to establish themselves in the colony. Workers can also compete for reproductive dominance resulting in the establishment of stable hierarchies. They do not engage each other physically, but use pheromones that mimic those produced by queens. The dynamics of pheromone production in paired workers suggests that they engage in a pheromonal contest. Because queen pheromones suppress ovary activation, the contest results in the sterility of the loser.
15104449	Palladium(II)-catalyzed intramolecular 1,4-oxyacyloxylation of conjugated dienes. A stereocontrolled route to fused six-membered lactones and pyrans.	Stereocontrolled palladium(II)-catalyzed intramolecular 1,4-oxidations of dienyl acids and alcohols proceed under mild conditions to give fused delta-lactones and pyrans, respectively, in good yields. The stereo- and regioselectivity was affected by the presence of LiCl and solvent composition (HOAc/acetone). The products obtained were used for further functionalizations using copper(I)-mediated reactions. Stoichiometric reactions of preformed dibutylcyanocuprates with pyrans containing an allylic acetate gave cis- and trans-fused ring systems with high gamma-selectivity and in high yields.
15104871	A modification of the token economy for nonresponsive youth in family-style residential care.	Out-of-home treatment for youth with conduct problems is increasing rapidly in this country. Most programs for these youth deliver treatment in a group format and commonly employ some version of a token economy. Despite widespread evidence of effectiveness, a substantial minority of treated youth fail to respond. Participants for this study were 3 youth who were nonresponsive to treatment provided in a family-style residential care program with a comprehensive token economy. Our approach to the &quot;nonresponse&quot; of these youth involved modifications of the frequency and immediacy of their access to the backup rewards earned with tokens. We evaluated the effects of the modifications with a treatment-withdrawal experimental design. Dependent measures included two indices of youth response to treatment: intense behavioral episodes and backup rewards earned. Results showed substantial improvement among these indices during treatment conditions.
15109168	[Chronic lymphocytic leukemia]	The last years have yielded important new insights into the biological characteristics of chronic lymphocyte leukemia cells, which have lend to modify the diagnosis and prognosis criteria of the disease. The diagnosis is now based on morphology and immunophenotyping of blood lymphocytes, making the bone marrow examination unnecessary. However, detection of a clonal expansion of B-lymphocytes in the blood is far to be synonymous of leukemia, and even less an argument for starting a treatment. Prognosis classifications based on clinical and blood counts are now refined with genotyping and cytogenetics. These new tools should improved the therapeutic strategies in the next future.
15110583	Potential predictive value of the MELD score for short-term mortality after liver transplantation.	In the last years, a model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) was suggested as a disease severity score for patients with end-stage liver disease awaiting liver transplantation. In the early 2002, United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) has proposed to replace the current status 2A, 2B, and 3 by a modified version of the original MELD score based upon patient risk for 3-month mortality on the waiting list. In this study UNOS status and MELD score were evaluated retrospectively for postoperative 3-month mortality in patients who underwent liver transplantation from 2000 to 2001. Liver recipients were stratified for UNOS status 2A, 2B, and 3, and the corresponding MELD score was calculated for each patient. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed for both conventional UNOS status and MELD score by fitting patient deaths within 3 months after liver transplantation. The MELD score revealed a better prediction rate for 3-month mortality after the first LT than conventional UNOS status, although no statistical significance was evident by ROC curve comparison. This preliminary study seems to suggest a potentially better predictive rate for the MELD score than conventional UNOS status concerning short-term mortality after liver transplantation.
15111764	Phenotypic similarities in bilateral breast cancer.	Bilateral breast cancers that develop at similar times in an individual are likely to have been subjected to similar hormonal, environmental and genetic influences during tumourogenesis compared with metachronous tumours. As such, it is possible that tumour phenotype in synchronous bilateral breast cancer may display similar biological characteristics. The aim of this study was to identify phenotypic similarities between synchronous and metachronous bilateral breast cancers which may suggest a common origin. Thirty-three cases of synchronous and 46 cases of metachronous bilateral breast cancer that displayed similar tumour type were analysed for concordance in relation to various histological and immunohistochemical parameters. A higher level of concordance was demonstrated for synchronous cases with the highest level seen for oestrogen receptor. It is likely that this is related to similar tumourogenic pathways occurring at equivalent exposure times to various environmental and hormonal influences, although, in a proportion of cases, inherited genetic factors may play a role.
15115264	Omega-3: the vanishing nutrient beyond cardiovascular prevention and treatment.	Omega-3 appears to be an important nutrient component of the mammalian body, however because of changes in the food chain during the last century it has become increasingly rare in frequently eaten foods. Currently, the main source of omega-3 is fish, which tends to be expensive and is periodically found to be contaminated. Common foods such as eggs, chicken, etc., which were once a rich source of omega-3, are now lacking it. Given the importance of omega-3 in a variety of body functions, as well as in the prevention of disease, it is obvious that in the coming years the scientific community worldwide will have to target agricultural research and development to the enrichment of foods with omega-3.
15118876	Hairy polyp of the tongue: a case report.	Hairy polyps or dermoids of the oro- and nasopharynx are benign lesions containing elements of both ectodermal and mesodermal origin. Because of its rarity, we report a case of hairy polyp arising from the tongue in a 40-day-old infant. The lesion was covered by squamous epithelium and a central core of fibroadipose tissue, minor salivary glands, and cartilage. We discuss the clinicopathological features, terminology, etiology, and differential diagnosis of this condition.
15120957	Haemoglobin oxygen affinity and regulating factors of the blood oxygen transport in canine and feline blood.	Complete dynamic oxygen equilibrium curves (OEC) on dogs and cats whole blood were measured at 33, 37 and 41 degrees C. OEC were also run at three partial carbon dioxide pressures (20, 40 and 80 mmHg) as well as at five pH levels (7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5 and 7.6). 2,3- diphosphoglycerate (DPG) concentrations were determined. Results were compared to those previously published in humans, using the same experimental method [Comp. Biochem. Physiol. 106 (1993) 687]. In standard conditions (pH 7.4, pCO2 40 mmHg and temperature 37 degrees C), the partial oxygen pressure at half-saturation of haemoglobin (p50) was 30.0+/-1.3 mmHg for dogs and 34.1+/-1.8 mmHg for cats. Cat's OEC was thus rightshifted compared to dog's OEC, itself rightshifted compared to human OEC. 2,3-DPG concentrations were higher in dogs than in men until they were very low in cats. Contrary to that observed in human medicine, no significant correlation was identified between standard p50 and canine 2,3-DPG values. Influence of pH, pCO2 and temperature on the OEC was saturation dependent. In dogs, Delta log p50/Delta pH was equal to -0.370, Delta log p50/Delta log pCO2 was 0.093 and Delta log p50/Delta T was 0.020. In cats, Delta log p50/Delta pH was equal to -0.405, Delta log p50/Delta log pCO2 was 0.080 and Delta log p50/Delta T was 0.016. Practically, temperature and pH variations exert a lesser influence in domestic carnivores than in humans, effect of pCO2 being similar in both.
15132567	Photolysis of 3-(2-Formylphenyl)-3-chlorodiazirine in an Ar matrix at low temperature.	Photolysis of 3-(2-formylphenyl)-3-chlorodiazirine in an Ar matrix at 13 K was monitored by IR and UV-vis spectroscopies. Characterization of the products was carried out by comparing the spectra with the theoretical IR spectra obtained by using DFT, which suggested that anti,anti-2-formylphenyl(chloro)carbenes (a,a-2), ketenes (syn- and anti-3), chlorobenzocyclobutenone (4), and chloroisobenzofurane (5) were formed. This indicates that carbene 2 interacts with both hydrogen and oxygen in the formyl group. When the matrix containing a,a-2 was allowed to stand in the dark at 13 K, a gradual increase of the band due to anti-ketene 3 at the expense of 2 was observed. In contrast to its protio analogue, the deuterated carbene 2-d showed almost no changes either for the decay of 2-d or the growth of 3-d within the time range where the protio analogue appreciably decayed. These observations are interpreted in term of a quantum mechanical tunneling mechanism.
15137149	Sustainable stormwater concepts as an essential instrument for river basin management.	The Emscher system, with its open wastewater drains, has been undergoing reconstruction since 1990. The watercourses, now relieved of the burden of wastewater, are being reconstituted as close to nature as possible. An important precondition, for which naturally orientated rainwater management concepts must be implemented in this densely populated region, is a homogenized run-off. Emschergenossenschaft has in recent years provided financial and conceptual support for the implementation of such changes. Present-day experience demonstrates that disconnection of 10% of impervious areas within the next fifteen years is a realistic target and consequently the aim for next year's work. As detailed studies using precipitation run-off models document, this will decisively improve the flood and minimum water situations of the small tributary watercourses in particular, which is important regarding the aims of the EU WFD.
15137504	Congenital hypotrichosis in a white-tailed deer fawn from South Dakota.	On 1 October 2001, a 4-mo-old male white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawn was collected in Day County, South Dakota (USA), by South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks personnel. The fawn had sparse hair development on the ventral thorax, the lateral caudal and caudal aspects of the rear legs, the muzzle, around the eyes, and inside the ears. Remaining skin surfaces were devoid of hair. Histologic examination revealed normal hair follicle density although follicles were empty or contained keratin debris and fragments of hair shaft. The epidermis of the fawn was mildly thickened and melanin pigment was prominent within deep layers of the epidermis. Based on histologic examination, the deer was diagnosed with congenital hypotrichosis. Although this condition has been reported in domestic species and humans, this specimen represents the first documented case of congenital hypotrichosis in a cervid.
15137935	Gamete interruptus; a novel calcium-dependent kinase is essential for malaria sexual reproduction.	Malaria parasites undergo sexual fertilization minutes after the bloodmeal enters the mosquito midgut. In this issue of Cell, Billker et al. (2004) describe a new Plasmodium calcium-dependent protein kinase essential for gamete formation, and show that it is required for parasite transmission.
15139071	Second neoplasms in pediatric patients with primary central nervous system tumors: the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital experience.	BACKGROUND: Details on second neoplasms (SNs) following pediatric central nervous system (CNS) tumors are scant, because of the rarity of such SNs. The goal of the current study was to investigate and characterize these rare SNs. METHODS: The authors reviewed clinical and treatment data on all institutional patients age &lt; 22 years at diagnosis of a primary CNS tumor who developed any type of SN. Patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 were excluded. Cumulative incidence rates were estimated, and putative risk factors were analyzed. RESULTS: The SNs investigated in the current study included 10 gliomas (42%), 5 meningiomas (21%), 2 desmoid tumors, 2 myelodysplastic syndromes, 2 basal cell carcinomas, 1 leukemia, 1 malignant fibrous histiocytoma, and 1 thyroid carcinoma. Twenty-one patients had previously received radiotherapy, and 12 patients had received chemotherapy. The SN was related to a genetic cause in 7 patients (29%). Eleven patients died of their SNs, including 8 patients with glioma and 2 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. The estimated 15-year cumulative incidence rate for malignant SNs was 4%. Children with choroid plexus tumors had an estimated 10-year cumulative incidence rate of 20.2%; 2 of those patients had germline TP53 mutations. Age &lt;/= 2 years was a significant risk factor (P = 0.016) for development of an SN only when patients with genetic conditions were included in the analysis. No significant difference in the estimated cumulative incidence of SNs was found among patients who had received different types of therapy. CONCLUSIONS: The risk of lethal SNs after pediatric CNS tumors is small. Young patients and patients with choroid plexus tumors appear to have an increased risk of SNs that is associated with genetic factors.
15139799	Psychogenic movement disorders: diagnosis and management.	Psychogenic movement disorders (PMDs) are best defined as hyper- or hypo-kinetic movement disorders, often associated with gait disorders, that cannot be directly attributed to a lesion or dysfunction of the nervous system and which are derived in most cases from psychological or psychiatric causes. There are a variety of PMDs including tremor, dystonia, parkinsonism, gait disorders and, even, unusual forms including paroxysmal dyskinesias. As has been recognised in the recent literature, PMDs cannot be strictly classified into clearly defined psychiatric disorders such as somatoform, dissociative or conversion disorders. In this review, we discuss the diagnosis of various PMDs (including hyper- and hypo-kinetic disorders; and current evidence for underlying comorbid disorders) and the current therapeutic approach to them. The therapy of PMDs is not well established, is very challenging to the clinician, and a better outcome can be achieved in the setting of a team approach involving movement disorders specialists, psychiatrists and therapists who specialise in cognitive-behavioural techniques. Current pharmacological and non-pharmacological approaches to treatment focus on therapy of underlying comorbid psychiatric and psychological issues, although compliance is a major concern.
15155150	The pharmacology of bipolar disorder during pregnancy and breastfeeding.	Treating bipolar disorder in women during reproduction presents a significant challenge to the physician. The pharmaceutical agents most commonly used for treating bipolar disorder have been associated with adverse effects when used during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Of particular concern has been the association of lithium with cardiac malformations, and the association of carbamazepine and valproate with neural tube defects including spina bifida. Toxicity in neonates has also been reported for the most commonly used mood-stabilising agents. Treatment options for mood stabilisation are either associated with risks of adverse events, have been used less frequently and their associated risks are unknown, or may not provide effective prophylaxis against recurrences of bipolar episodes. However, strategies are available that minimise the risk to the fetus and infant whilst still providing effective prophylaxis against bipolar disorder in the mother. Ideally, a treatment regimen tailored to suit the individual should consider both mother and baby and should be planned prior to conception.
15156257	Surveillance versus nonsurveillance for femoro-popliteal bypass grafts.	This is a study of 97 patients who underwent 106 femoropopliteal bypass grafts (9 bilateral bypasses) for short-distance claudication and critical ischemia. Patients were divided into 2 groups. The first group (n=64) was followed up by use of duplex scans. The second group (n=42) was followed up in clinic without duplex surveillance. Twenty-three patients from the surveillance group developed stenoses of the grafts. Of these, 14 underwent successful angioplasty. A total of 43 grafts became blocked. Graft occlusion was significantly more common in the nonsurveillance group (n=29) as compared to the surveillance group (n=14) after both 1 and 3 years of observation (p=0.001). Patients with critical ischemia showed a higher rate of graft occlusion than the claudicants (p=0.0075). Sixteen patients in the nonsurveillance group underwent above/below-knee amputation compared to 1 in the surveillance group. There was no significant difference in the mortality rate in the 2 groups. Graft surveillance helped to improve patency of grafts by identifying the correctable lesions.
15156372	A simple method for bone-graft handling during spine surgery.	Morsellized bone-graft handling during spine surgery to get vertebral fusion can be a slow, laborious and time-consuming procedure. It is not absolutely exempt from complication risk. An easy, quick and inexpensive alternative technique is described.
15159138	Intranasal cocaine in humans: acute tolerance, cardiovascular and subjective effects.	Although recent research has focused on &quot;crack&quot; cocaine, the majority of the cocaine users in the United States insufflate (&quot;snort&quot;) cocaine rather than smoke it. Furthermore, the intranasal route of administration is often the first way that many cocaine-dependent individuals used cocaine. Numerous studies have reported on the effects of repeated doses of smoked or intravenous cocaine, the relationship between cocaine plasma level and cocaine's effects, and the development of acute tolerance to smoked or intravenous cocaine. Significantly less information is available about similar effects of intranasal cocaine. The purpose of this study was to determine the dose-dependent effects of repeated intranasal cocaine in humans. Ten experienced male cocaine users were admitted to the hospital on two separate occasions for four days each, with a minimal two-week interval between admissions. During each admission, an intranasal cocaine (0.06, 0.34, 0.69, and 1.37 mg/kg) dose-response curve was determined during four laboratory sessions: Two administrations of the same cocaine dose occurred each session at 40-min intervals. Intranasal cocaine produced dose-related increases in ratings of &quot;positive&quot; drug effects, heart rate, and blood pressure. Plasma cocaine levels peaked following the second cocaine insufflation of each session, while metabolite levels increased during each session. Although the plasma cocaine level approximately doubled following the second cocaine administration, the ratings of positive drug effects, heart rate, and blood pressure did not increase after the second cocaine administration. These data demonstrate that, as observed with smoked and intravenous cocaine, acute within-session tolerance develops during repeated intranasal cocaine administration.
15162874	An airborne gamma-ray spectrometry survey of nuclear sites in Belgium.	As part of a wider study to define the existing background levels in Belgium an airborne gamma-ray survey was conducted in two areas associated with nuclear sites. In the Mol area, the survey zone included areas surrounding the SCK-CEN nuclear research centre, and its associated neighbourhood which includes radioactive waste stores, fuel manufacture and fabrication facilities and an international accelerator laboratory. In the vicinity of Fleurus, the survey included the IRE complex with radiochemical laboratories, irradiation facilities and stores, and isotope production accelerators. The survey was conducted using a twin engined helicopter equipped with a combined scintillation and semiconductor spectrometer. The system was installed and tested in the UK, and then transferred to Belgium for operations. The complete survey was conducted successfully within 1 week. The results provide a comprehensive record of the radiation environment of the nuclear sites at time of survey, and show a range of signals associated with the types of activity present in each area. They confirm that radiation fields are largely confined to the operational sites, and provide a traceable record against which future changes could be assessed. The demonstration of efficient deployment between two European countries, coupled with rapid mapping of many different radiometric signals around these sites confirms the utility of the airborne gamma spectrometry approach for accurate definition of enhanced radiation fields. This has important implications for emergency response.
15169282	Beyond the T1 limit: singlet nuclear spin states in low magnetic fields.	Low-field nuclear spin singlet states may be used to store nuclear spin order in a room temperature liquid for a time much longer than the spin-lattice relaxation time constant T1. The low-field nuclear spin singlets are unaffected by intramolecular dipole-dipole relaxation, which is generally the predominant relaxation mechanism. We demonstrate storage of nuclear spin order for more than 10 times longer than the measured value of T1. This phenomenon may facilitate the development of nuclear spin hyperpolarization methods and may allow the study of motional processes which occur too slowly for existing NMR techniques. This is the first time that the memory of nuclear spins has been extended well beyond the T1 limit in a system lacking intrinsic magnetic equivalence.
15170718	Complication with an embolic protection device during carotid angioplasty.	A case of carotid artery stenting with an AngioGuard cerebral protection device is described in a patient with tight internal carotid stenosis. Deployment of AngioGuard induced sudden severe vasospasm, with subsequent minor stroke. According to our observations, AngioGuard may cause a vasospastic response with adverse neurologic effects.
15172865	Outcome of pregnancy in homozygous sickle cell disease.	OBJECTIVE: Previous reports on pregnancy in homozygous sickle cell (SS) disease are biased by hospital-based, more severely affected subjects and may have underestimated recurrent early pregnancy losses. We report pregnancy outcome in a representative sample of SS subjects subsequently referred to as &quot;subjects&quot; or &quot;sickle cell subjects,&quot; and matched normal controls followed from birth. METHODS: The outcomes of 94 pregnancies in 52 subjects and 157 pregnancies in 68 controls followed in a cohort study from birth are presented. Outcome measures included the age at menarche, interval to first pregnancy, outcome of pregnancy, and maternal complications. Possible predictors of low birth weight are assessed. Outcomes were compared by the Kaplan-Meier analysis for interval to first pregnancy and by Student t test, chi(2) test, or Fisher exact test, as appropriate. Correction was made for multiple testing, and multiple linear regression was used for analysis of birth weight. RESULTS: Compared with controls, SS subjects had later menarche (median age 15.4 versus 13.0 years) and first pregnancy (median age 23.7 versus 20.1 years), and more spontaneous abortions (36% versus 10%). Babies of SS subjects had a lower gestational age (P &lt;.001) and lower birth weight (P &lt;.001), the latter being significantly affected by sickle-related events in pregnancy. There was no difference in pregnancy-induced hypertension, preeclampsia, or antepartum or postpartum hemorrhage, but a retained placenta was marginally more common in SS subjects (Fisher exact test, P =.007 after adjustment for multiple testing). Two SS subjects died, a mortality rate of 2.1%. CONCLUSION: The increased fetal loss and maternal morbidity in mothers with homozygous sickle cell disease is confirmed. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: II-2
15180126	Characteristics of psychosexual functioning in adults with cerebral palsy.	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the characteristics of psychosexual functioning in adults with cerebral palsy, as compared with able-bodied control subjects, matched by gender and marital status, and to identify the factors affecting psychosexual functioning. DESIGN: Interview and survey using the Derogatis Sexual Functioning Inventory (DSFI). SETTING: Inpatient and outpatient units in a rehabilitation hospital and welfare facilities. SUBJECTS: Sixty-two adults with cerebral palsy and 142 age-matched able-bodied controls participated in this study. The participants were grouped into four subgroups according to gender and marital status. MAIN MEASURES: General characteristics of the subjects, 10 domain scores of the DSFI and Sexual Functioning Index (SFI) as a global score were assessed. The scores for each cerebral palsy group according to gender and marital status were compared with those of their corresponding able-bodied control group. RESULTS: Unmarried men with cerebral palsy demonstrated lower SFI and weakness in sexual information, experience, drive, attitude, psychological symptoms, affect and satisfaction, compared with unmarried able-bodied men (p &lt; 0.05). In contrast to unmarried men, unmarried women did not reveal any significant differences in all but body image domain score (p &lt; 0.05) between the groups. Married adults with cerebral palsy showed higher levels of psychological distress in both men and women and lower sexual satisfaction in women (p &lt; 0.05). Nonambulatory people with cerebral palsy had significantly a lower sexual information, experience and satisfaction, and a lower SFI than ambulatory (p &lt; 0.05). Barthel Index was significantly related to body image (p &lt; 0.05). Psychosexual functioning was not significantly different according to cerebral palsy type. CONCLUSION: This study revealed the characteristics on psychosexual functioning in adults with cerebral palsy, depending on gender and marital status. The results suggested that nonambulatory unmarried men with cerebral palsy were at high risk in terms of psychosexual dysfunction.
15182095	Manipulation of central nervous system plasticity: a new dimension in the care of neurologically impaired patients.	Research in the neurosciences in recent decades has shown that the central nervous system is not a structurally static organ as was believed previously, but instead is a dynamic system that constantly undergoes structural and functional reorganization. The term brain plasticity refers to the constant cellular and intercellular modifications that occur during normal development and after neurologic injury and result in changes in neurologic function. The discovery that central nervous system plasticity after injury can be directed toward functional improvement with use of specific modalities has opened up a new dimension in the care of the neurologically impaired patient, termed restorative neurology.
15182846	Prediction of diagnosis in patients with early arthritis using a combined Kohonen mapping and instance-based evaluation criterion.	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and spondyloarthropathy (SpA) are the two most frequent forms of chronic autoimmune arthritis. These diseases lead to important inflammatory symptoms resulting in an important functional impairment. This paper introduces a self-organizing artificial neural network combined with a case-based reasoning evaluation criterion to predict diagnosis in patients with early arthritis. Results show that 47.2% of the sample space can be predicted with an accuracy of 84.0% and attaining a high confidence level. 37.7% of the sample space is classified with an overall accuracy of 65.0%. The remaining group was labeled as &quot;undetermined&quot;. A general prediction accuracy of 75.6% is reached, exceeding the performance of other approaches such as a backpropagation neural network and the Quest decision tree program. Furthermore, by using this new method, more specifically case-based reasoning, as a helpful tool to classify patients with early arthritis, the possibility of a confidence measure is given, indicating a degree of &quot;belief&quot; of the system in its results. This is often an important feature when dealing with diagnosis in human patients.
15185047	Doppler flow parameters of left ventricular filling in infants: how long does it take for the maturation of the diastolic function in a normal left ventricle to occur?	OBJECTIVE: To study the impact of the maturational process of diastolic left ventricular function on trans-mitral Doppler flow parameters. METHODS AND PARTICIPANTS: In a survey we examined pulsed-wave Doppler signals and diastolic time intervals from 238 healthy neonates and infants. Using multiple linear regression analysis, we evaluated the impact of physiological determinants on parameter expression. RESULTS: Early-filling and atrial-filling peak velocities, early-filling acceleration and deceleration rates, and the atrial-filling time velocity integral reached a climax within 2 months after birth, while early-filling time velocity integral followed increasing throughout the study period. The isovolumic relaxation time was found to be significantly longer for neonates than for infants older than 2 months. The observed parameter movements could be attributed to changes of stroke volume and mitral valve area for early filling-time velocity integral (R2 = 0.93), and of heart rate, stroke volume, and mitral valve area for early filling peak velocity (R2 = 0.84), and atrial-filling time velocity integral (R2 = 0.65). Isovolumic relaxation time and atrial-filling peak velocity became heart rate dependent not before 3 months after birth. CONCLUSIONS: The observed parameter changes are powerful indicators for the maturational process in diastolic function. This process is mainly completed by 3 months of age.
15185164	Handlebar hernia in children: two cases and review of the literature.	Localised traumatic abdominal hernias are rare. Most such hernias are due to the direct impact of the handlebars of a bicycle or motorcycle, with 20 cases reported to date in the English language literature, 12 in children. We report two new cases of handlebar hernia, in children aged 6 and 10 years. In both cases, physical examination revealed an area of contusion and bruising in the lower abdomen. However, the muscle defect was detected during the first examination in only one of the patients, and not until several days later in the other patient. Abdominal ultrasonography proved useful for diagnosis in both patients. Early surgical correction is necessary to prevent possible complications. This type of hernia should be borne in mind when evaluating children who have suffered abdominal trauma in a bicycle accident.
15186764	Ribosome function: governing the fate of a nascent polypeptide.	Recent data highlight how eukaryotic ribosomes connect polypeptide synthesis to translational regulation and targeting. Information contained in nascent polypeptides can be transmitted by surprisingly diverse routes.
15188446	The impact of childhood cancer on the family: a qualitative analysis of strains, resources, and coping behaviors.	Clinical research has led to tremendous improvements in treatment efficacy for most childhood cancers; overall 5-year survival is now greater than 75%. Long-term consequences of cure (i.e. adverse medical and psychosocial effects) have only recently begun to emerge as a primary focus of clinical research, including studies of health-related quality of life among survivors. Usually lacking in such efforts, however, is consideration of the impact of the cancer experience on the family, and the influence that the family's response to cancer has on quality of life in the child. From this qualitative analysis of seven focus groups with 45 parents of children a year or more out of cancer treatment, we report those aspects of a child's cancer diagnosis, treatment, and recovery that parents perceived as particularly difficult for their family, and the resources and coping behaviors parents perceived as helpful to their family in dealing with and managing the cancer experience. Using the Family Adjustment and Adaptation Response theoretical model to organize the data, the domains of strains and resources were delineated into themes and sub-themes related to the cancer, child, family, health-care system, and community. Within a third domain, coping, sub-themes were identified within the themes of appraisal-focused, problem-focused, and emotion-focused coping behaviors. Integration of this information should serve to improve future studies of health-related quality of life among children who survive cancer.
15193899	Impact of health education and screening over all-cause mortality in Japan: evidence from a cohort study during 1984-2002.	BACKGROUND: Health education and screening are two components of preventive health services in Japan since 1983. This study investigated their relationships with all-cause mortality as they are studied insufficiently in Hokkaido, Japan. METHODS: This study enrolled 1,532 men and 1,653 women aged 40-97 years from 1,702 randomly selected households of 60 areas during 1984-1985 and followed them until 2002. At baseline survey, staffs of 45 health centers collected sociodemographic, medical, behavioral, and dietary information including health education and screening from study subjects with informed consent. RESULTS: For men, age-adjusted Cox proportional hazard model indicated lower mortality for those who received health education (RR = 0.76, P &lt; 0.01) and screening (RR = 0.83, P &lt; 0.05) than those who did not. Health education showed lower mortality even after adjusting for many variables. Similarly for women, health education (RR = 0.66, P &lt; 0.01) and screening (RR = 0.64, P &lt; 0.001) revealed lower age-adjusted mortality. Almost similar results were found for both services when models were adjusted for many variables and when the deaths including lost to follow-up cases of the first 4 years of baseline survey are excluded. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows protective effects of health education and screening over all-cause mortality for both sexes. However, further studies are needed to confirm the results.
15202260	[Skeletonized right gastroepiploic artery for coronary artery bypass grafting; evaluation of intraoperative graft flow and postoperative angiographic result]	We evaluated the efficacy of using the skeletonized right gastroepiploic artery (RGEA) in coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). The RGEA was harvested either as a pedicle (group P, n = 14) or in a skeletonized fashion using a Harmonic Scalpel (group S, n = 14). The free flow of the RGEA was too small to be measured in some cases in group P. On the other hand, the free flow of the RGEA could be measured in all cases in group S, and that value obtained was comparable to the free flow of the left internal thoracic artery. The skeletonization of the RGEA also allowed us to directly visualize this vessel, and thus helped us to evaluate the quality of this artery. Postoperatively, all RGEAs were patent in both groups. The RGEA diameters on the postoperative angiography showed the RGEAs in group S to have a wider caliber, however, the differences in the values for each group did not reach statistic significance. Neither the operation time nor the postoperative hospital stay were substantially lengthened due to the skeletonization of the RGEA. In conclusion, the skeletonization of the RGEA using a Harmonic Scalpel is safe and effective modality which enables surgeons to directly visualize arteries in order to determine their quality and thereby making it easier to perform sequential bypass grafting. The method also demonstrated an excellent quality of the patent graft on postoperative angiography. We therefore consider the skeletonization of the RGEA to be a very useful method for harvesting the RGEA in CABG.
15206992	Effects of tetracycline on the pharmacokinetics of halofantrine in healthy volunteers.	AIMS: To investigate the effect of tetracycline co-administration on the pharmacokinetics of halofantrine in healthy subjects. METHODS: Eight healthy males were each given 500 mg single oral doses of halofantrine alone, or with tetracycline (500 mg 12 hourly for 7 days), in a crossover fashion. Blood samples collected at predetermined intervals were analyzed for halofantrine and its major metabolite, desbutylhalofantrine (HFM), using a validated HPLC method. RESULTS: Co-administration of tetracycline and halofantrine resulted in a significant increase (P &lt; 0.05) in the maximum plasma concentration (C(max)), total area under the concentration-time curve (AUC), and terminal elimination half-life (t(1/2,z)), compared with halofantrine alone. (C(max) 0.43 +/- 0.14 vs 1.06 +/- 0.44 microg ml(-1) (95% CI on the difference 0.30, 0.95); AUC 32.0 +/- 13.6 vs 63.7 +/- 20.1 microg ml(-1) h (95% CI 14.2, 49.1); t(1/2,z:) 90.8 +/- 17.9 vs 157.4 +/- 57.4 h (95% CI 21.7, 111.5)). Similarly, tetracycline caused a significant increase (P &lt; 0.05) in the AUC and C(max) of HFM. CONCLUSIONS: Tetracycline co-administration significantly increases the plasma concentrations of halofantrine and its major metabolite.
15207475	Dynamic polyhedral models of globular proteins.	We have devised several mechanical models of globular proteins by approximating them to various polyhedra (dodecahedron, truncated octahedron, icosahedron, truncated icosahedron). The models comprise hollow blocks linked together in a flexible chain. Between blocks there is a set of several reversible, weak magnetic interactions such that when the chain is agitated, it will fold into a stable polyhedral structure about the size of a hand. Folding may be followed in real time with a video camera. Key to the success of the folding process is the lightness of the chain. Several side chains may also be added to the blocks such that they come together to create a polyhedral core when the chain folds. The models have a number of similarities to globular proteins: each chain folds into a unique, but dynamic, three-dimensional structure; the instructions that determine this structure are built into the configuration of blocks; and it is difficult to predict this structure given the unfolded block configuration. Furthermore, the chains fold quickly, generally in less than a minute, several pathways are involved, and these pathways progress through elements of &quot;native&quot; structure. In particular, the models emphasize the importance of restricted conformational mobility in assisting the chain to fold, and also in eliminating undesirable interactions. Because of these similarities to globular proteins, we believe that the polyhedral models will, with continued development, be helpful in understanding the protein folding process, while at the same time acting as valuable educational visual aids. They might also inspire the construction of new types of microscopic, self-assembling devices.
15208941	Use of correction procedures in ploidy analysis of oral carcinomas.	Ploidy analysis is an aid in the diagnosis and evaluation of prognosis of tumors. Image analysis is a relatively simple technique to assess ploidy that can be carried out with accessible equipment. However, it requires the use of accurate technical procedures to avoid methodological errors that may bias the measurements. We previously developed two procedures that are simple to apply in routine work and serve to correct the errors derived from the measurement of large nuclei that are not fully contained in the thickness of the section and those derived from non-specific background readings. In the present study we applied these corrections to the retrospective ploidy analysis of a series of 67 patients with oral carcinoma with a follow-up time of 18 months. Thirty-four patients were alive at the end of the study, 33 were deceased. The ploidy values and the malignancy indices corresponding to the deceased and live patients with TNM stage III and IV carcinomas at the time of biopsy were significantly different. There were no significant differences in ploidy values between live and deceased patients with TNM stage I and II at the time of biopsy. The corrections improved the sensitivity of the method and thus the statistical significance of the data. These data suggest that the method proposed may be of use to estimate lesion evolution, in particular in patients with advanced oral squamous cell carcinomas.
15214985	Neuronavigation-assisted cranial reconstruction.	OBJECTIVE: Cranial defects resulting from congenital deformities, ablative resection of osseous tumors, traumatic injury, and destructive infectious lesions are often severe enough to warrant surgical reconstruction. In particular cases, satisfactory cosmetic results may be difficult to achieve because of the extent and location of the lesion. METHODS: We evaluated the role of neuronavigation for reconstruction of large cranial defects with prefabricated titanium and intraoperatively constructed neuronavigation-assisted polymethylmethacrylate implants. RESULTS: Neuronavigation-assisted cranial reconstruction was performed in 14 patients. Surgical procedure, illustrative cases, postoperative results, and apparent benefits of the technique are presented and discussed. In all patients, excellent cosmetic results were achieved. CONCLUSION: In cranial reconstruction, neuronavigation is of value not only for intraoperative determination of resection margins but also for preoperative assessment and planning. The combination of navigation techniques with prefabricated or intraoperatively constructed implants enables achievement of excellent cosmetic results.
15216479	Low genetic diversity despite hyperendemicity of hepatitis B virus genotype E throughout West Africa.	Sub-Saharan Africa suffers from an excessively high endemicity of hepatitis B virus (HBV), but little is known about the prevalent genotypes. In this study, we investigated the PreS1/PreS2/S genes of 127 viruses obtained from 12 locations in Mali, Burkina Faso, Togo, Benin, Nigeria, Cameroon, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Except for those obtained from the Cameroon HIV cohort (18/22 HBV genotype A), 96 of 105 sequences belonged to HBV genotype E (HBV/E), and viral DNA was very similar (1.67% diversity) throughout this vast HBV/E crescent, which spans 6000 km across Africa. The low diversity suggests that HBV/E may have a short evolutionary history. Considering a typical mutation rate of DNA viruses, it would take only 200 years for the strain diversity of HBV/E viruses to develop from a single introductory event. The relatively recent introduction of HBV/E into humans would also explain its conspicuous absence in the Americas, despite the forced immigration of slaves from west Africa, until the early 19th century. Infection during infancy is mostly associated with chronic carrier status, and this combination can account for the explosive spread of virtually identical viruses within a community, but whether other routes of long-range transmissions must be considered becomes an important question.
15216491	Hypertension: a disorder of volume control? What is the evidence?	Hypertension is a common trait worldwide and is responsible for a major expenditure of health-care dollars in the United States. Although the etiological factors responsible for the expression of this phenotype are complex, several experimental and clinical observations point to a major role of the kidney as responsible. Genetic studies of uncommon diseases, which express monogenetic inheritance, all have in common a dysregulation of sodium balance and volume expansion. Furthermore, epidemiological data suggest an increased incidence of hypertension in communities with high excretory rates of sodium. Experimental data also suggest that low birth weight is associated with an increase in the frequency of hypertension later in life and raises the possibility that intrauterine imprinting may contribute to the expression of the phenotype. Indeed, data suggesting up-regulation of the Na(+)/K(+)/2Cl(-) and thiazide-sensitive transporters in low-birth-weight animals may provide the physiological basis for these observations. Finally, subtle gain of function mutations in one or more of these transporters may unmask defects in volume homeostasis with increasing salt intake.
15217998	What is the most relevant standard of success in assisted reproduction? The next step to improving outcomes of IVF: consider the whole treatment.	Changing the way in which successful IVF treatment is defined offers a tool to improve efficacy while reducing costs and complications of treatment. Crucial to this paradigm shift is the move away from considering outcomes in terms of the single IVF cycle, and towards the started IVF treatment as a whole. We propose the most informative end-point of success in IVF to be the term singleton birth rate per started IVF treatment (or per given time period) in the overall context of patient discomfort, complications and costs. These end-points are important not only for patients, but also for clinicians, health economists and policy makers. Such an approach would encourage the development of patient-friendly and cheaper stimulation protocols with less stress, discomfort and side effects. The combination of mild ovarian stimulation with single embryo transfer may provide the same overall pregnancy rate per total IVF treatment, achieved in the same amount of time for similar direct costs, but with reduced patient stress and discomfort, and the near complete elimination of multiple pregnancies. This would offer major health and indirect cost benefits. If IVF success rates were to be expressed in terms of delivery of a term single baby per IVF treatment (or in a given treatment period), the introduction of single embryo transfer on a large scale would be facilitated.
15221882	Number of contractions to maintain mass and force of a denervated rat muscle.	Within 5 weeks, denervated extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles of rats lose 66% of mass, 91% of force, and 76% of fiber cross-sectional area (CSA). We previously determined the parameters of electrical stimulation for denervated rat EDL muscles to generate tetanic contractions sufficient to maintain mass and force close to control values. Using these parameters, we tested the hypothesis that a range exists for number of contractions per day, below and above which values for mass, maximum force, and fiber CSA are lower than values for innervated control muscles. For 5 weeks, denervated EDL muscles were stimulated to generate between 25 and 5000 contractions daily with contractions separated by constant intervals of rest, repeated 24 h per day. Force was not maintained with fewer than 200 or more than 800 contractions daily, whereas mass and fiber CSA were not maintained with fewer than 50 contractions daily. Protocols of stimulation that maintain muscle mass and force during prolonged periods of denervation may minimize problems clinically associated with denervation atrophy.
15222688	Cerebrospinal fluid levels of brain specific proteins in optic neuritis.	This study evaluates levels of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) brain-specific proteins (BSP) in subjects with optic neuritis (ON) who are at high risk of progression to multiple sclerosis (MS). Forty-one subjects had acute ON and 17 subjects with other neurological diseases (OND) served as controls. Twenty-one subjects with ON had white matter lesions on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and intrathecal synthesis of oligoclonal IgG bands (OB) consistent with being at high risk of progression to MS; eight of whom later were diagnosed with clinically definite MS (CDMS). Levels of S100B, ferritin and two neurofilament heavy chain phosphoforms (NfH(SM134) and NfH(SM135)) were analysed using ELISA technique. A putative index of 'axonal health' was expressed as a ratio of NfH(SM134) to NfH(S135). NfH(SM134) and the NfH(SM134:SM135) were significantly elevated in subjects with ON compared to controls. No significant differences in levels of CSF BSP were seen between ON subjects with CDMS plus those at high risk of progression to MS and ON subjects with normal MRI and negative CSF analysis. In conclusion, there is evidence of axonal damage in subjects who present with ON, which is independent of the diagnosis of CDMS.
15225383	Retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy v classic lumbotomy for pyonephrosis.	PURPOSE: To describe our experience and operative technique for retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy for pyonephrosis and to compare the results with those of open surgery. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Since October 1998, 23 successful retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomies for pyonephrosis were performed in our institution (Group A). These patients were compared with 23 patients, matched by age, sex, and body weight, who underwent classic lumbotomy for pyonephrosis (Group B). The two groups were compared in terms of operative time, blood loss, hospital stay, wound complications, and time of return to previous occupation. RESULTS: All the features studied except operative time were significantly different in favor of laparoscopy. CONCLUSION: Although technically difficult, retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy for pyonephrosis is feasible. The extraperitoneal approach allows direct access to the renal hilum and helps avoid spillage of pus into the peritoneum.
15229236	Rapid, hierarchical modulation of vocal patterning by steroid hormones.	Vocal control systems have been identified in all major groups of jawed vertebrates. Although steroid hormones are instrumental in the long-term development and maintenance of neural structures underlying vocalization, it is unknown whether steroids rapidly modulate the neural activity of vocal motor systems. The midshipman fish generates advertisement and agonistic calls that mainly differ in duration. A descending midbrain pathway activates a hindbrain-spinal vocal circuit that directly establishes the discharge frequency and duration of the rhythmic vocal motor volley. This vocal motor output, which can be monitored from occipital nerve roots, directly determines the rate and duration of contraction of a pair of sonic muscles and, in turn, the fundamental frequency and duration of vocalizations. Here, we demonstrate that the duration of the vocal motor volley, or fictive vocalization, is rapidly responsive to steroid hormones, including androgens, estrogens, and glucocorticoids. These responses are consistent, in part, with a nongenomic mechanism and are steroid specific at the receptor level, suggesting the possibility of multiple membrane-bound receptor populations. We also show, using intact and semi-intact preparations, that steroids hierarchically modulate fictive vocalizations; whereas the hindbrain-spinal region is both necessary and sufficient for rapid (within 5 min) effects on duration, descending midbrain input is necessary for maintenance (up to 120 min) of these effects. The conserved nature of vertebrate vocal motor systems suggests that the neuroendocrine principles outlined in this study may be a fundamental feature of all vocal vertebrates.
15230904	Cytomegalovirus infection in symptomatic periapical pathosis.	AIM: To compare the presence of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infections in samples from 25 symptomatic and 19 asymptomatic periapical lesions. METHODOLOGY: Periapical samples were collected by sterile curettes in conjunction with apicectomy. cDNA-based HCMV and EBV identification was performed on total mRNAs extracted from peripapical tissues, using primers for genes transcribed during the productive phase of the herpesvirus infection. Statistical analysis was performed using chi-squared test. RESULTS: HCMV was detected in 100% of the symptomatic and in 37% of the asymptomatic study lesions. EBV was identified only in HCMV-infected periapical lesions. The difference in occurrence of HCMV and EBV between symptomatic and asymptomatic periapical lesions was statistically significant (P &lt; 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: The noteworthy finding of this study was the ubiquitous occurrence of HCMV active infection in symptomatic periapical pathosis. EBV may contribute to periapical pathogenesis in a subset of symptomatic lesions. HCMV and EBV infections may cause periapical pathosis by inducing cytokine and chemokine release from inflammatory or connective tissue cells, or by impairing local host defences resulting in heightened virulence of resident bacterial pathogens. Knowledge about the role of herpesviruses in periapical pathosis seems important to fully delineate the pathogenesis of endodontic infectious diseases. HCMV and probably EBV should be added to the list of putative pathogenic agents in symptomatic periapical disease.
15234604	The paradox of satiation.	Animals behave in bouts, and the process that causes feeding bouts to end is called satiation. Bout size or, in the case of feeding, meal size is the result both of the costs of food resources and the consequences of consuming a particular resource. Meal size increases as a function of increasing resource access cost; in this way, meal size is part of a strategy that economizes on time and energy spent acquiring food resources, thereby making time and effort available for competing activities. Meal size also varies as a function of the amount of the resource consumed and the animal's requirements for that resource. The paradox of satiation is that it is both a tool for economizing and a consequence of feeding.
15235872	Hepatocellular carcinoma in noncirrhotic young adult patients with chronic hepatitis B viral infection.	BACKGROUND: The aims of this study were to define the clinical characteristics of hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in young adult patients without cirrhosis and to evaluate the efficacy of interferon (IFN) therapy on HCC recurrence. METHODS: Of 187 patients with HBV-related HCC treated at our hospital, 4 had no liver cirrhosis and were less than 30 years of age (10, 22, 23, and 26 years). RESULTS: At the time of diagnosis of HCC, all cases had antibody to hepatitis B e antigen (anti-HBe) and histological staging of nontumorous liver was F0 or F1, i.e., low-grade hepatitis. The mothers of all 4 young adult patients with HCC had HBV-related liver disease. Three cases developed recurrence of HCC. In these patients, long-term intermittent IFN therapy after reresection of HCC resulted in long-term survival without recurrence for more than 3 years of follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: (1) Young adult patients with HCC are positive for anti-HBe, lack cirrhosis, and the route of infection seems to be mother-to-infant transmission. Transplacental transmission of HBV and HBV DNA integration into the cellular genomic DNA during fetal life is a possible explanation of HBV-related hepatocarcinogenesis in young adults; and (2) long-term IFN therapy seems to be useful for prevention of tumor recurrence after radical operation for HBV-related HCC.
15238627	Nail fold videocapillaroscopy in mixed cryoglobulinaemia.	BACKGROUND: Nail fold videocapillaroscopy (NVC) has been extensively used to examine morphological and functional changes of microcirculation in connective tissue diseases. The nutritional circulation that depends on tissue capillaries, can be expected to be significantly impacted in mixed cryoglobulinaemia (MC). METHODS: Using NVC, we evaluated 29 patients with MC (19 women), mean age 66 years (range 40-83). They included 28 hepatitis C virus (HCV) positive patients-14 genotype 1b, 10 genotype 2a 2c, two genotype 4, two with undetermined genotype. Of them, 18 had type II (IgMk-IgG) MC and 11 had type III. All patients were symptomatic, presenting with weakness (24 of 29 patients), arthralgia (24), purpura (16), peripheral neuropathy (20), Raynaud's phenomenon (8), hypertension (19) and membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) (9). The nail fold capillaries of four fingers per hand were examined using a videomicroscope. RESULTS: Of the 29 patients, 27 had morphological abnormalities (including tortuosity and apical enlargement), 18 had capillaries with deeply altered orientations, 17 had shortened capillaries and 20 neoangiogenetic phenomena. These four types of capillary abnormalities were simultaneously present in 10, suggesting this combination to be a characteristic pattern in MC. Less common alterations included haemorrhages (10 cases), enlarged and giant capillaries (2) and avascular areas (2). The patients with MC-associated MPGN had a significantly greater number of capillary abnormalities (mean 4.5, range 4-6) than non-nephritic patients (mean 3.5, range 1-6, P = 0.01). The number of capillary abnormalities was not related to the presence of Raynaud's phenomenon. Microcirculatory changes did not correlate with other clinical manifestations or serological indices, including cryocrit, cryoglobulin type, HCV genotype, viral load, haemoglobin, ALT, rheumatoid factor, IgM and C4 levels. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with MC show a variety of microcirculatory changes, often clustered in a characteristic pattern of abnormally oriented, short capillaries and neoangiogenetic phenomena. Capillary changes are more numerous in nephritic patients.
15241754	The effect of poststroke cognitive impairment on rehabilitation process and functional outcome.	OBJECTIVES: To determine whether cognitive impairment affects access to, or quality of, rehabilitation services, and to examine the effects of functional outcomes in stroke patients. DESIGN: Secondary analysis of prospective cohort of stroke patients followed for 6 months after stroke. SETTINGS: Eleven large-volume US Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals nationwide. PARTICIPANTS: Stroke patients (N=272) who were candidates for rehabilitation. INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Rehabilitation process variables were examined for patients assessed as cognitively impaired or unimpaired according to education-adjusted Mini-Mental State Examination score. Functional outcomes were performance of activities of daily living (ADLs), measured by the FonFIM, and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), measured by Lawton, at 6-month follow-up. RESULTS: Compliance with guidelines and receipt of and interval to postacute treatment initiation did not differ between cognitively impaired and unimpaired patients. Although most cognition-related treatment elements were similar for both groups, cognitive goals were more frequently charted in impaired patients. Controlling for baseline function and rehabilitation process, cognitively impaired patients had worse IADL performance at 6 months than did unimpaired patients; cognition did not significantly influence ADL performance. CONCLUSIONS: Quality of, and access to, rehabilitative care was equivalent for patients with and without cognitive impairment. Despite a similar rehabilitation process, cognitively impaired stroke patients experienced worse recovery of IADLs.
15245144	Atom interferometry with trapped fermi gases.	We realize an interferometer with an atomic Fermi gas trapped in an optical lattice under the influence of gravity. The single-particle interference between the eigenstates of the lattice results in macroscopic Bloch oscillations of the sample. The absence of interactions between fermions allows a time-resolved study of many periods of the oscillations, leading to a sensitive determination of the acceleration of gravity. The experiment proves the superiority of noninteracting fermions with respect to bosons for precision interferometry and offers a way for the measurement of forces with microscopic spatial resolution.
15246159	Effect of KRN7000 on induced graft-vs-host disease.	OBJECTIVE: Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) is a serious complication of allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) and donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI), for which no effective therapy exists. In our study, KRN7000, a synthetic analog of alpha-galactosylceramide, known for its ability to activate natural killer T cells, was tested for its ability to prevent onset of GVHD in a murine model of haploidentical major histocompatible (MHC) mismatched hematopoietic cells. METHODS: Irradiated (BALB/cXC57BL/6)F1 mice were inoculated with parental C57BL/6 splenocytes with or without SCT. KRN7000 was given intraperitoneally as single or multiple doses at 100 microg/kg/dose and mice were followed up for GVHD clinical symptoms and for survival. The effect of KRN7000 treatment was also tested in vitro for the induction of suppression of alloreactivity in mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). RESULTS: KRN7000 prevented development of GVHD symptoms in almost all mice and 52/53 mice maintained a healthy profile for more than 235 days. Most vehicle-treated mice or untreated controls died of GVHD within a median of 3 weeks. KRN7000 treatment did not prevent engraftment of donor cells following sublethal total-body irradiation (TBI) and allowed durable persistence of donor cells following lethal TBI and SCT. Splenocytes derived from KRN7000-treated mice suppressed efficiently mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) in vitro. CONCLUSION: GVHD induced by alloreactive lymphocytes can be prevented by KRN7000. GVHD prevention may be accomplished by regulation of T cell function and might thus provide a new modality for safer SCT and DLI.
15253611	A pain in the back case.	I This article discusses a Supreme Court case involving a patient who was referred to a chiropractor for treatment of neck pain. The case highlights some important issues, including the: importance of good medical record keeping, duty to read patient documentation, including previous medical records, duty to perform a physical examination, and duty to consider if a referral is appropriate
15253787	Hand-assisted retroperitoneoscopic radical nephrectomy and nephroureterectomy.	In laparoscopic operations for renal tumor and upper urinary-tract transitional-cell carcinoma (TCC), three approaches - the transperitoneal, retroperitoneal, and transperitoneal hand-assisted - have been reported. We have performed hand-assisted retroperitoneoscopic radical nephrectomy (RN) since 1999 and nephroureterectomy (NU) since 2000. The surgical techniques and the operative results of 95 cases of RN and 54 cases of NU are described and analyzed. These procedures were effective and safe for renal tumors and upper urinary-tract TCC.
15253903	Improving air quality in megacities: Mexico City case study.	The development and effective implementation of solutions to the air pollution problems in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area is essential to guarantee the health and welfare of its inhabitants. To achieve this, it is essential to have the active and informed participation of the civil society, the academic community, the private sector, and the government, because dealing with pollution requires the use of different strategies in multiple fields of action. The Mexico City case study brings together health, transportation, administration, and many other interdisciplinary approaches to understanding and defeating air pollution. Although focused on the Mexico City area, the work conducted under this case study has significance for developing nations generally. Although policies to reduce air pollution should be based on the best available scientific knowledge, political will and capacity must transform this knowledge into action. This case study has developed a series of recommendations emphasizing the interaction between different disciplines that have provided the foundation for the 10-year air quality management program prepared by the Mexican Metropolitan Environmental Commission.
15258345	Hemorheological disturbances in the overtraining syndrome.	Contemporary sports imply huge training volumes, with thus an increasing danger of overloading. The timely detection of the state of overloading in the organism as a whole or in skeletal muscles presents a difficult and complicated problem. A standardized questionnaire has been proposed by the French consensus group on overtraining of the Socit Franaise de Mdecine du Sport (SFMS) and allows the calculation of a &quot;score&quot; that may help to quantify the early clinical symptoms of the overtraining syndrome in sportsmen submitted to a heavy training program. We previously reported that this overtraining score is correlated with blood viscosity due to a correlation of this score with plasma viscosity and hematocrit. When subjects with a high score were compared to subjects with a lower score they appeared to have a higher blood viscosity at native (but not corrected) hematocrit, explained by higher values in both plasma viscosity and hematocrit. By contrast, there was no difference in RBC deformability and aggregation. Therefore, the early signs of overtraining in elite sportsmen are associated with a hemorheologic pattern that suggests some degree of reversal of the &quot;autohemodilution&quot; which characterizes fitness. In a further study we reported that the feeling of heavy legs in overtrained athletes is related to impaired hemorheology. Although well matched with controls for age and body composition, subjects with a complaint of heavy legs had higher plasma viscosity and a higher red cell aggregation as measured with laser backscattering. These findings suggest that the feeling of heavy legs in overtrained athletes are related to hemorheologic disturbances. In the light of the recent concept explaining this syndrome by a mild chronic inflammatory reaction, the investigation of hemorheology in overtraining can be a promising area for hemorheologists, providing both markers and likely pathophysiological explanations for some symptoms of this situation.
15260844	From miasma to fractals: the epidemiology revolution and public health nursing.	If public health nursing is truly a synthesis of public health science and nursing science, then nurses must keep track of current developments in public health science. Unfortunately, the public health nursing literature has not kept pace with revolutionary developments in epidemiology, one of the sciences that informs population-focused nursing practice. Most epidemiology chapters in community health nursing texts do not reflect the intellectual development that has taken place in epidemiology over the past two decades. The purpose of this article therefore is to facilitate an updated synthesis by (a) reviewing the development of epidemiology and the focus of public health nursing practice through three historical eras, (b) discussing current controversies and tensions within epidemiology, (c) introducing an emerging paradigm in epidemiology based on an ecosocial perspective, and (d) discussing the congruence of this perspective with the evolving theory and practice of public health nursing.
15260942	Integrating pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy in the management of anxiety disorders.	Anxiety disorders are among the most prevalent psychiatric conditions throughout the world, and they are responsible for considerable morbidity and functional impairment. Patients with these disorders make extensive use of medical resources, not only through their use of the mental health system but by frequent utilization of primary care and emergency medical services. Although it is common clinical practice to combine pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy, some researchers have argued that this has not been shown effective in practice and is an inefficient use of limited mental health resources. This article will examine the evidence supporting integrative therapy for the major Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, Text Revision anxiety disorders and discuss clinical considerations surrounding the use of combined therapies for anxiety.
15262392	Prevalence of nosocomial infections and use of antibiotics in long-term care facilities in Norway, 2002 and 2003.	There were 42900 institution-beds in long-term care facilities for elderly persons in Norway in 2000. This is twice as many as in 1984. Of those living in an elderly people's care institution 77% were above 80 years. To determine the magnitude and distribution of nosocomial infections in such institutions, the Norwegian Institute of Public Health initiated a surveillance system. The system is based on two annual one-day prevalence surveys recording the four most common nosocomial infections: urinary tract infections, lower respiratory tract infections, surgical-site infections and skin infections, as well as antibiotic use. All long-term care facilities were invited to participate in the four surveys in 2002 and 2003. The total prevalence of the four recorded nosocomial infections varied between 6.6 and 7.3% in the four surveys. Nosocomial infections occurred most frequently in the urinary tract (50%), followed by infections of the skin (25%), of the lower respiratory tract (19%) and of surgical sites (5%). The prevalence of nosocomial infections was highest in rehabilitation and short-term wards, whereas the lowest prevalence was found in special units for persons with dementia. In all the surveys the prevalence of the four recorded nosocomial infections was higher than the prevalence of patients receiving antibiotics. The frequency of nosocomial infections in such facilities highlights the need for nosocomial infection surveillance in this population and a need to implement infection control measures, such as infection control programmes including surveillance of nosocomial infections.
15271104	Stabilization of a freeze-dried recombinant streptokinase formulation without serum albumin.	AIM: To evaluate the stability and content homogeneity of a new freeze-dried and albumin-free formulation of recombinant streptokinase (SKr) that has recently been approved by the Cuban National Center for the Quality Control of Medicaments. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The new formulation was stored at the intended recommended storage temperature of 4 degrees C, and under accelerated storage conditions (37 degrees C). The stability of the product was also examined after reconstitution and storage at room temperature (28 degrees C) for 24 h. Samples were periodically subjected to biological activity assays (S-2251 chromogenic-substrate method or in vitro clot-lysis assay), sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE), pyrogen and sterility testing, abnormal toxicity screening, organoleptic evaluation, and measurement of residual moisture and pH. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Accelerated storage (37 degrees C) data showed biochemical stability of SKr throughout the 6-month study with activity, remaining between 90 and 110% of its nominal value (0.75 x 10(6) IU/mL). SDS/PAGE-determined purity showed that SKr remained above 97 %. Furthermore, the formulation was non-pyrogenic, non-toxic, sterile and organoleptically acceptable. Real-time storage data confirmed the excellent biochemical long-term (30 months) stability of the new formulation of SKr. Comparison with other freeze-dried preparations showed that the new formulation was organoleptically better. The formulation was stable after reconstitution and storage at 28 degrees C for 24 h. The content homogeneity of this new formulation was also satisfactory. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the stability and the content homogeneity of this formulation, despite the absence of albumin as stabilizer.
15283136	[Targeting molecular mechanisms for cancer therapy]	Cancer development is considered by the dysregulated proliferation of transformed cells. In recent years, dramatic and remarkable insight into the molecular mechanisms of this phenomenon have come from basic cancer research. Detailed knowledge of the molecular mechanisms and pathophysiology of cancer allows therapeutic agents to be designed that specifically target aberrant cellular processes. There are currently a number of targeted treatment strategies with less toxicity being evaluated. In the future, it is likely that this mechanistic and targeted approach will have a significant impact on clinical oncology and the diagnostic evaluation of tumors.
15285705	Requirement of diverse T-helper responses elicited by HIV vaccines: induction of highly targeted humoral and CTL responses.	With the continued spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic at alarming proportions there is a sense of urgency for an effective prophylactic HIV vaccine. However, in addition to the social, geopolitical and public health problems, the scientific challenges often seem insurmountable. Empirical approaches to develop an HIV/AIDS vaccine have been unsuccessful and this, coupled with the recent failure of the first Phase III clinical trials, calls for a strong rational approach based on a deeper scientific understanding of the correlates of immunity observed in both preclinical and clinical settings. While the field has been polarized between those who have been proponents of vaccines that induce strong cytotoxic T-cell responses, and those who advocate inducing neutralizing antibody responses, we have maintained middle ground. Based on our early preclinical observations in rigorous nonhuman primate vaccine efficacy studies, we have focused on vaccine strategies that induce potent T-helper immune responses capable of driving both cytotoxic, as well as broad highly effective neutralizing antibodies. The critical issue remains in the selection of the specific vaccine antigens. To date, our approach has been to utilize multiple structural as well as regulatory HIV antigens containing highly conserved epitopes. The current challenge faced is to design novel antigens based on mimicking envelope structures capable of inducing broad neutralizing antibodies. Our aim is to combine these with immunization strategies capable of eliciting potent cellular as well as humoral immune responses with the ultimate goal of providing mucosal barriers to HIV entry.
15286112	Applicants to U.S. dental schools: an analysis of the 2002 entering class.	In 2002, there were 7,537 applicants to all entering dental school classes in the United States. This represents a 1.7 percent increase over the number of applicants in 2001. Between the peak of applicants in 1997 (at 9,829) and 2001, the number declined 25.0 percent. (This is similar to the percent decline that occurred in medical school applicants since their peak in 1996, at 46,968.) Dental schools reported 4,372 first-time, first-year enrollees in 2002. This is an increase of 105 first-time, first-year enrollees over the number reported in 2001. With the 1.7 percent increase in applicants and the 2.5 percent increase in first-time, first-year enrollees over last year, 58 percent of the dental school applicants were enrolled in 2002. This is up very slightly from 57.6 percent in 2001. Since 1989 when dental school enrollment once again began to increase, the number of first-time, first-year enrollees has increased 17.7 percent. (Total first-year enrollment, which includes first-time enrollees and repeat students, has increased 11.8 percent since 1989.) The number of applicants per first-time, first-year position was 1.72 in 2002. It was 2.31 in 1997. (The most recent low was 1.34 in 1989.) The average GPA and DAT scores of first-time, first-year enrollees in 2002 were essentially unchanged from what they were in 2001. Women were 43.7 percent of the applicants and 42.7 percent of first-time, first-year enrollees in 2002, slight increases from what they were in 2001. Underrepresented minorities comprised 12.8 percent of the applicants and 11.4 percent of the first-time, first-year enrollees in 2002. These percentages are little changed from those reported in 2001.
15294422	MCMC for hidden Markov models incorporating aggregation of states and filtering.	This paper is concerned with the statistical analysis of single ion channel records. Single channels are modelled by using hidden Markov models and a combination of Bayesian statistics and Markov chain Monte Carlo methods. The techniques presented here provide a straightforward generalization to those in Rosales et al. (2001, Biophys. J., 80, 1088-1103), allowing to consider constraints imposed by a gating mechanism such as the aggregation of states into classes. This paper also presents an extension that allows to consider correlated background noise and filtered data, extending the scope of the analysis toward real experimental conditions. The methods described here are based on a solid probabilistic basis and are less computationally intensive than alternative Bayesian treatments or frequentist approaches that consider correlated data.
15297512	Rapid identification of Nocardia farcinica clinical isolates by a PCR assay targeting a 314-base-pair species-specific DNA fragment.	Nocardia farcinica is the most clinically significant species within the Nocardia asteroides complex. Differentiation of N. farcinica from other members of N. asteroides complex is important because this species characteristically demonstrates resistance to several extended-spectrum antimicrobial agents. Traditional phenotypic characterization of this species is time- and labor-intensive and often leads to misidentification in the clinical microbiology laboratory. We previously observed a 409-bp product for all strains of N. farcinica by using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA analysis with the primer DKU49. In this investigation, the 409-bp fragment was sequenced and then used to design a specific primer pair, Nf1 (16-mer) and Nf2 (16-mer), complementary to the 409-bp fragment. PCR amplification of genomic DNA from 28 N. farcinica isolates with Nf1 and Nf2 generated a single intense 314-bp fragment. The specificity of the assay with these primers was verified, since there were no PCR amplification products observed from heterologous nocardial species (n = 59) or other related bacterial genera (n = 41). Restriction enzyme digestion using CfoI and direct sequencing of the 314-bp fragment further confirmed the specificity of the assay for N. farcinica. This highly sensitive and specific PCR assay provides a rapid (within 1 day of obtaining DNA) method for identification of this medically important emerging pathogen. Rapid diagnosis of N. farcinica infection may allow for earlier initiation of effective therapy, thus improving patient outcome.
15297941	Screening for upper gastrointestinal tract malignancies.	The screening for malignancies involving the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract has taken on new importance as the incidence of cancers such as adenocarcinoma of the esophagus has risen. The availability of new screening technology and molecular biological techniques has dramatically improved our ability to detect early lesions. We have also developed a detailed understanding of the natural history of many upper GI malignancies. This new knowledge has led to significant improvement in population-based screening programs. In this review we will detail the evidence supporting our current screening methods and provide a concise overview of current screening recommendations for select upper GI malignancies.
15303104	Regular participation in sports is associated with enhanced physical fitness and lower fat mass in prepubertal boys.	OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of physical activity on whole body fat (BF), its regional deposition and the influence of body fatness on physical performance in prepubertal children. DESIGN: Cross-sectional study. SUBJECTS: A total of 114 boys (9.4+/-1.5 y, Tanner I-II), randomly sampled from the population of Gran Canaria (Spain), 63 of them physically active (PA, at least 3 h per week during the previous year) and 51 nonphysically active (non-PA). MEASUREMENTS: Body composition (DXA), anthropometric variables (body circumferences and skinfolds) and physical fitness were determined in all subjects. RESULTS: The PA obtained better results in maximal oxygen uptake, isometric leg extension force, vertical jump (muscular power), and 300 m (anaerobic capacity) and 30 m running tests (speed) than the non-PA. A lower percentage of body fat (% BF) (4 U less, P&lt;0.05), whole BF mass (36% less, P&lt;0.05) and regional fat mass (28, 25, and 30% less in the trunk, legs and arms, respectively, all P&lt;0.05) was observed in the PA compared to the non-PA. The waist and hip circumferences correlated more closely with both the fat mass accumulated in the trunk region and the % BF (r=0.81-0.95, P&lt;0.001) than the waist-to-hip ratio (WHR). The WHR correlated with the percentage of the whole fat mass accumulated in the trunk (PFT) (r=0.52-0.53, P&lt;0.001). In both groups, the PFT increased curvilinearly with the % BF, regardless of the level of physical activity. ANCOVA analysis revealed that total and regional fat masses explained less than 40% of the difference in performance between the PA and non-PA group. The mean speed in the 30 m running test (V30), combined with the height and whole body mass, has predictive value for the BF mass (R=0.98, P&lt;0.001). The % BF may be estimated from the body mass index (BMI) and V30 (% BF=8.09+2.44.BMI (kg m(-2))-5.8.V30 (m s(-1)), R=0.94, P&lt;0.001) in prepubertal boys. CONCLUSIONS: Regular participation in at least 3 h per week of sports activities and competitions on top of the compulsory physical education program is associated with increased physical fitness, lower whole body and trunkal fat mass in prepubertal boys.
15303223	[Validation of a ratio scale for family needs at an intensive care unit]	The hospitalization of a close relative due to unexpected critical illness may trigger an unbalance in the patient's family structure. The family plays an important role in the patient's recovery and, often, its needs are unknown by nurses and little emphasis is given to attention to the family's needs. This study aimed to validate a ratio-level scale of family needs at an intensive care unit (ICU). The sample consisted of 52 family members who visited their relatives during ICU hospitalization. Psychophysical methods of magnitude estimation (ME) and cross modality matching (line length) were used, calculating the geometric mean of each need by both methods. The results showed a high agreement on needs among the participants, with a Pearson coefficient of r= 0.97 (p&lt;0.0001). The relationship between these methods can be described as a power function, confirming that this scale of family needs is valid, stable and consistent.
15307961	Prevalence and service implications of health anxiety in genitourinary medicine clinics.	A comparison of the prevalence of health anxiety in genitourinary medicine (GUM) clinics in two UK centres was carried out using a new rating scale, the Health Anxiety Inventory (HAI). The relationship of health anxiety to demographic and clinical variables, and its impact on service contacts, was also examined in one of these centres. 694 patients were assessed and significant health anxiety was identified in 8-11%. HAI scores were stable over time and high levels persisted in the absence of treatment. Attenders with sexually transmitted infections had significantly lower levels of health anxiety than those with other conditions. Contacts with clinic doctors and health advisors in the nine months before and after assessment were significantly greater in those with high health anxiety, with doctor appointments 37% higher in the high HAI group (P = 0.005). Health anxiety is a source of considerable morbidity in GUM clinics deserving further study.
15311744	Transient otoacoustic emissions in infants of diabetic mothers.	BACKGROUND: Nursing infants of diabetic mothers require special care. AIM: To verify whether the metabolic alteration during pregnancy is able to alter the cochlear function and the efferent olivocochlear system. METHOD: Transient otoacoustic emissions of 30 children of diabetic mothers were analyzed, comparing the results to a control group, according to the occurrence and amplitude of the responses. RESULT: The children of diabetic mothers presented contractile activity of the outer hair cells with a lower response amplitude. CONCLUSION: The results did not show a statistically significant difference. Further studies with larger samples are necessary.
15311833	Electric fields in the human body due to electrostatic discharges.	Electrostatic discharges (ESDs) occur when two objects at different electric potentials come close enough to arc (spark) across the gap between them. Such discharges may be either single-event or repetitive (e.g., 60 Hz). Some studies have indicated that ESDs may be a causative factor for health effects in electric utility workers. Moreover, a hypothesis has recently been forwarded imperceptible contact currents in the human body may be responsible for health effects, most notably childhood leukemia. Numerical modeling indicates that the electric fields in human tissue resulting from typical contact currents are much greater than those induced from typical exposures to electric and magnetic fields at power line frequencies. Numerical modeling is used here to compute representative spark-discharge dosimetry in a realistic human adult model. The frequency-domain scalar potential finite difference method is applied in conjunction with the Fourier transform to assess electric fields in selected regions and tissues of interest in the body. Electric fields in such tissues as subcutaneous fat (where peripheral nerves may be excited), muscle and bone marrow are of the order of kilovolts per meter in the lower arm. The pulses, however, are of short duration (approximately 100 ns).
15313519	Anatomical MRI study of borderline personality disorder patients.	Hippocampal volume reduction has been reported in patients with borderline personality disorder (BPD), and is hypothesized to be associated with traumatic childhood experiences. We extended this investigation to explore additional brain regions and other potential clinical correlates of structural brain changes in BPD. Ten unmedicated BPD subjects and 20 healthy controls were assessed for current and past Axis I and II comorbidities and histories of childhood abuse. All had magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies with a 1.5 T GE Signa Imaging System, performing three-dimensional-gradient echo imaging (SPGR) with the following parameters: TR=25 ms, TE=5 ms, and slice-thickness=1.5 mm. Compared with healthy controls, BPD subjects had significantly smaller right and left hippocampal volumes, most marked in subjects with childhood abuse, and significantly increased right and left putamen volumes, especially in subjects with substance use disorders. No significant differences between groups were found for caudate, amygdala, temporal lobes, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and total brain volumes. This study replicated prior findings of diminished hippocampal volumes in subjects with BPD. Also, increased putamen volumes were found in BPD, a finding that has not been previously reported. Early traumatic experiences may play a role in hippocampal atrophy, whereas substance use disorders may contribute to putamen enlargement.
15314437	[Association of diet with menopausal symptoms in Korean middle-aged women]	PURPOSE: This study was designed to explore the association of diet with menopausal symptoms in Korean women. METHOD: For this cross-sectional survey, 276 women aged between 45-55 years visiting two branches of K-university hospital located in Seoul and Ansan of Kyunggi province were recruited from April to July, 2002. A menopause-specific quality-of-life questionnaire and a food frequency questionnaire were used to measure menopause-related symptoms and the intake of 28 types of foods. RESULT: No differences were found in the levels of bothersome total menopausal symptoms, physical symptoms, psychosocial symptoms, and sexual symptoms according to the intake of each food. Only higher intake of fishes, seaweeds, and vegetable oils were inversely associated with bothersome levels of vasomotor symptoms. Women with higher intake of yellow-green vegetables and lower intake of coffee, confectionery, and processed foods reported lower hot flush rate. CONCLUSION: The results suggest that higher intake of yellow-green vegetables and lower intake of coffee, confectionery and processed foods may relieve hot flushes. Further study needs to be pursued to study the relationship with nutrients of these foods and hot flushes.
15316320	Early hepatic nodular hyperplasia and submicroscopic fibrosis associated with 6-thioguanine therapy in inflammatory bowel disease.	BACKGROUND: 6-Thioguanine (6-TG) has been used as an alternative thiopurine for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients not responsive to or intolerant of azathioprine (AZA) and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP). 6-TG-related hepatotoxicity, including liver biochemistry value elevations, sinusoidal collagen deposition on electron microscopy, and veno-occlusive disease, have been described related to its use as therapy for neoplastic disease. METHODS: We studied 38 liver biopsies from patients treated with 6-TG, almost all of whom (n = 125) received 6-TG for 1 to 3 years at the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. All biopsies were fixed in 4% buffered formalin and prepared in the usual manner. Hematoxylin and eosin, Masson's trichrome (trichrome), and reticulin silver impregnation (reticulin) stained slides were studied. In 23 cases, tissue was also prospectively fixed in glutaraldehyde and processed for electron microscopy. RESULTS: In 20 of the 37 patients studied (53%), nodular regeneration of varying degree was seen with reticulin. In only 4 of these 20 instances (11% of the total) were the changes seen with hematoxylin and eosin and in 3 of the 4, only in retrospect after studying the reticulin preparation. Minimal fibrosis was seen with trichrome in only 13 biopsies (34%), but sinusoidal collagen deposition was observed in 14 of the 23 cases studied with electron microscopy (60%). The biopsy from the 1 patient with nodular hyperplasia obvious with hematoxylin and eosin also demonstrated changes of venous outflow obstruction. CONCLUSIONS: 6-TG-treated IBD patients are at significant risk for nodular hyperplasia, early fibrosis and, less often, venous outflow disease (Budd-Chiari). The natural history of these changes is unknown and follow-up biopsies are needed to determine histologic and clinical sequela. Patients not demonstrating nodular hyperplasia or fibrosis who continue with 6-TG because there are no better therapeutic choices should be periodically rebiopsied.
15320780	Emerging technologies in biocompatible surface modifying additives: quest for physiologic cardiopulmonary bypass.	Modification of polymer surfaces to achieve a surface with enhanced compatibility is an important means of obtaining improved biomaterials. The molecular design of the novel technologies is carried out with attention to create a biomembrane-mimicking surface on medical devices. This review focuses on the comparison of the chemical composition of recent novel surface modifying additives and coating technologies, their biomaterial evaluation and clinical efficacy under the scope of our previous studies and current literature.
15325713	Hand washing and hand disinfection: more than your mother taught you.	Hand washing is considered the single most important intervention for prevention of nosocomial infections in patients and health care workers. Unfortunately, compliance with standard protocols for hand hygiene in the health care environment, and especially within intensive care areas such as operating rooms and post-anesthesia care units, has been generally poor. In this article, we consider the current standards for hand hygiene as they pertain to the practice of anesthesiology. We discuss the consequences of poor compliance with hand washing practices for patient and health care provider safety. And we describe modern innovations in hand washing procedures and products that improve the opportunities for anesthesiologists to employ safe hand hygiene.
15327059	[An analysis of the pathogenetic significance of irradiations from mobile phones]	The biological effects of irradiations from mobile phones produced on different structures of the living matter, e.g. molecular-genetics, cells, organ-and-tissue, body and population, are analyzed in the paper. Possibilities of the genetic and epigenetic mutations, metabolic shifts, different-type cytopathic effects, oncogenesis induction, allergic conditions and of other processes associated with a certain lesion of the main structural-and-functional systems of microorganisms are elucidated. Irradiations from mobile phones are shown to have obvious effects on the molecular-and-genetic as well as on organ-and-tissue levels. However, contradictory enough data are available at the moment, which hamper a true evaluation of the unfavorable effects of the phenomenon both in respect to separate organisms and to a population as a whole. The offered analytic survey demonstrated distinctly a potential threat coming from a widely spread modern factor with the above threat requiring to be verified yet by special methods. It is equally quite obvious that, a need is shaping up to improve, in the future, the methods of detection and verification of &quot;factor with finally non-established risk&quot; as well as to investigate the potential pathological properties of such factors, which can essentially promote the system of the social-and-hygienic monitoring.
15327883	The blight of pollution keratoconjunctivitis among children in oil-producing industrial areas of Delta State, Nigeria.	The rapid urbanization and industrialization of Warri and environs between 1968 and 1990 have some adverse consequences due to accumulation of diverse categories of pollutants from drilling, production, and refining of crude oil and production of petrochemicals, especially black carbon. Persistent itching, foreign body sensation, and specified areas of conjunctival/limbal discoloration were used as markers for pollution keratoconjunctivitis (PKC). Children attending eye clinics in Delta State government hospitals located at Warri, Ekpan, and Aladja were sampled. Warri and Ekpan, both oil-producing areas, were used as the experimental group. Aladja, also within the same location but a nonoil-producing area (steel industries), was used as the control. The levels of black carbon and tetraethyl lead (TEL) were measured in the tear film of 100 children selected by a simple random technique from each location. Biochemical assays showed that the tear samples contained some levels of TEL among the sample population, and the TEL content was 0.01 microg/mL for all the tear samples. Stereomicroscopy gave the following estimated values of black carbon content washed off the external adnexia of the sample population: Ekpan 2%/mL, Warri 1.5%/mL, and Aladja 0.6%/mL. The results also show that occurrence of the three major clinical signs and symptoms of PKC (persistent itching, foreign body sensation, specified limbal/conjunctival discoloration, respectively) were as follow: Ekpan, 79, 68, and 65%; Warri, 55, 53, and 50%; Aladja, 26, 22, and 16%. This indicates that higher particulate concentrations of black carbon correlated with increased prevalence of the markers for manifestation of PKC. This implies that the markers for PKC in this experiment are more pronounced in oil-producing areas.
15330775	Impact of indoor air temperature and humidity in an office on perceived air quality, SBS symptoms and performance.	Perceived air quality (PAQ), sick building syndrome (SBS) symptoms and performance of office work were studied in a real office space at three levels of air temperature and humidity and two levels of ventilation rate (20 degrees C/40%, 23 degrees C/50%, 26 degrees C/60% RH at 10 l s(-1) p(-1) outside air, and 20 degrees C/40% RH at 3.5 l s(-1) p(-1) outside air). Thirty female subjects participated in the experiment. They were exposed to each environmental condition for 280 min. Thermal comfort was maintained at different thermal environments by self-adjustment of clothing. The subjects performed simulated office work throughout each exposure and repeatedly marked a set of visual-analog scales to indicate their perception of environmental conditions and of the intensity of SBS symptoms at the time. The study confirmed the previously observed impact of temperature and humidity on perceived air quality and the linear correlation between acceptability and enthalpy. The impact on perceived air quality of decreasing the ventilation rate from 10 to 3.5 l s(-1) per person could be counteracted by a decrement of temperature and humidity from 23 degrees C/50% RH to 20 degrees C/40% RH. Performance of office work was not significantly affected by indoor air temperature and humidity. However, several SBS symptoms were alleviated when the subjects worked at low levels of air temperature and humidity, which implies that a longer term exposure to low indoor air temperature and humidity might help to improve the performance of office work. PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS: The findings of this study indicate the importance of indoor air temperature and humidity on perceived air quality and SBS symptoms. In practice, the required ventilation rate for comfort and health should no longer be independent of indoor air temperature and humidity.
15331868	Information-seeking behaviour and psycho-social interactions during the genetic testing process.	OBJECTIVES: The first aim of this study was to investigate the information-seeking behaviour (ISB) of women attending cancer genetic consultations at which the possibility of BRCA testing is considered. We focused here specifically on ISB apart from the cancer genetic consultation, i.e. on what complementary sources of information about genetic testing were consulted and what factors were involved in this behaviour. The second aim was to study the role of the social network used by the patients to collect various opinions on which to base their decisions about being tested. METHODS: A prospective cohort study (2000-2002) was therefore carried out on all women attending a single cancer genetic clinic in France after a BRCA1/2 analysis had been proposed. Closed questionnaires were administered before and after the second cancer genetic consultation. The purpose of this consultation was to confirm the patient's decision to be tested. RESULTS: Results were analysed in 108 subjects (mean age 47 years, SD 11 years; 74% affected by breast/ovarian cancer). Prior to the 2nd consultation, 35.2% of the women had actively looked for information about BRCA1/2 testing, as compared to 25.0% afterwards. After multivariate adjustment by logistic regression, the pre-consultation ISB was found to be associated with greater satisfaction with the information about the psycho-social consequences of genetic testing [adjusted odds ratio (ORadj) 1.03, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.01-1.06] (scale from 0 to 100) and about the certainty of being a gene carrier (ORadj 3.04, 95% CI 1.16-7.98). Those who actively looked for complementary information were also more often accompanied at the consultation by a family member (ORadj 4.82, 95% CI 1.85-12.56). The other variables tested (depression, coping, socio-demographic and medical characteristics) were not significant (p > 0.05). The role of the social network in the decision making process was perceived as being less helpful when the persons consulted tended to have neutral or unfavourable opinions about genetic testing. CONCLUSIONS: Few women actively sought complementary information about BRCA genetic testing in addition to the cancer genetic consultation. Those who did so differed from the others in terms of their social network and their satisfaction with the consultation. The cancer geneticist is the key actor in women's decision making about genetic testing.
15334290	Imaging of tuberculosis of the spine.	Tuberculosis (TB) is the leading cause of death worldwide that can be attributed to a single infectious agent. With the onset of the AIDS epidemic, there has been a resurgence of TB in recent years. Skeletal TB constitutes 1% to 3% of extrapulmonary cases, and typically involves the spine. TB of the spine should be considered in the differential diagnosis of many spinal conditions affecting patients of all ages. The pathophysiology, clinical and imaging features of TB of the spine are reviewed, with illustrations of findings on radiography, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Familiarity with the imaging features of TB of the spine may enable a more rapid diagnosis to be made, thereby preventing a delay in diagnosis with its consequent complications.
15334818	[Evolutionary transformations of ontogenesis in anuran amphibians]	A review of the recent published data on ontogenesis of direct developing and marsupial frogs. The development of these representatives of anuran amphibians seems to be evolutionary advanced and considerably differs from the development of species traditionally used in amphibian embryology.
15337019	Postoperative sternal dehiscence in obese patients: incidence and prevention.	BACKGROUND: Obesity has been identified as the single most important risk factor for postoperative sternal infection in coronary bypass surgery patients. It is also a major risk factor for sternal dehiscence, with or without infection, for any type of cardiac operation. We assessed whether prophylactic measures could prevent this complication. METHODS: Two studies were conducted. In study A, 3,158 heart surgery patients were analyzed at 3 cardiac units. Obesity was defined as body mass index (BMI) more than 30. Group I (1,253 obese [39.7%]) was compared with group II (1,905 nonobese [60.3%]). Sternal closure was done at the surgeon's preference: (a) plain wires through and through the bone; (b) peristernal figure-of-eight wires; or (c) peristernal method, using stainless-steel cables. In study B, 123 obese patients were prospectively divided into 2 subgroups. Group B-1 (54 patients) underwent lateral prophylactic sternal reinforcement before placement of peristernal wires. Group B-2 (69 patients) had standard sternal closure, as in study A. RESULTS: In study A, group I had 81 dehiscences (6.46%); 78 also suffered deep sternal infection and mediastinitis (96%). Despite treatment, dehiscence recurred in 13, and mortality was 38.4%. In group II nonobese patients, 31 dehisced (1.6%, p = 0.000), with no mortality. In study B, group B-1 (54) had 0% dehiscence versus group B-2 (69) with 6 dehiscences (8.7%). CONCLUSIONS: In our study, the rate of obesity is high ( approximately 40%). Sternal dehiscence is real when the BMI is more than 30 (6.46%), and has high morbidity and mortality. Prophylactic sternal reinforcement seems to prevent this complication.
15337969	Differences between flow profiles of pulmonary vein anastomoses affected by peripheral atelectasis in cadaveric and bilateral living-donor lobar lung transplantations.	We report two cases of peripheral atelectasis during cadaveric and living-donor lobar lung transplantation, which had different effects on the flow profile of pulmonary vein (PV) anastomoses. In the patient who underwent living-donor lobar lung transplantation, we detected the increase in the velocity of blood flow through the left PV anastomosis by intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography. Then peripheral atelectasis occurred in the transplanted left lung lobe. On the other hand, in the patient who underwent cadaveric bilateral lung transplantation, peripheral atelectasis occurred, but no changes in velocities of blood flow through PV anastomoses were detected by intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography. This difference may have been caused by the difference in sizes of pulmonary beds of transplanted grafts. These findings indicate the necessity of careful monitoring of PV anastomoses, especially in cases of living-donor lobar lung transplantation.
15343488	[Extramedullary hematopoiesis -- a differential diagnosis of intrathoracic paravertebral tumors]	BACKGROUND: Intrathoracic tumors always suggest a malignant clinical picture in the first instance. Especially in the case of paravertebral masses an extramedullary hematopoiesis is possible. It is regarded as compensation mechanism for reduced blood cell formation. PATIENTS: In four patients' radiographic examination of the lung partially bilateral paravertebral masses where detected by chance. In two cases, a chronic anemia existed, one patient suffered from an extended hemangiomatosis of the right brachium and the right hemithorax. In one case, no hematological disease could be diagnosed. RESULTS: The computed tomography revealed malignancy-simulating tumors with partially necrotic pattern. In all cases, transthoracal biopsy showed cytological evidence of typical differentiated bone marrow with a regular hematopoiesis. As the extramedullary hematopoiesis of these four patients was diagnosed by chance and no symptoms or local complications existed, no specific therapy was necessary. In one of these cases a stable radiographic outcome for more than ten years is evident. CONCLUSIONS: Especially in the case of patients with chronic anemia the existence of extramedullary hematopoiesis has to be considered upon occurrence of paravertebral tumors. An hematological disorder as cause may as well be absent. Due to the suspicion of malignancy a morphologic diagnosis is always necessary, but some clinical and radiologic features may indicate a benign process. A progression of the size can be unrecognized for ten years, so a therapeutic intervention is needed only in case of symptoms like myelocompression.
15346354	Indications and limitations of intraoperative navigation in maxillofacial surgery.	PURPOSE: Although primarily developed for neurosurgical application, intraoperative navigation has gained acceptance even in maxillofacial surgery with an increasing field of indications. We want to demonstrate our clinical experiences, focusing on the indications and limitations of intraoperative navigation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In our department, the navigation system VectorVision (BrainLAB, Heimstetten, Germany) is used. The accuracy of this referencing method, consisting of a cortical fixed reference system and surface scanning, was checked by anatomic landmarks. Surgical treatment of 20 patients was performed with the help of the navigation system. RESULTS: The VectorVision system proved to be a useful supplement during the surgical exploration of complex anatomic regions. However, resolution of imaging data sets, errors of image fusion, and discrepancies during referencing increased the inaccuracy before surgery. The main problem was the topographic changes caused by surgery, resulting in discrepancies between the preoperative image data and the surgical site. In one case suffering from a meningioma extending to the neck, topography was changed by surgery making navigation inaccurate. CONCLUSION: Generally, a promising field for intraoperative navigation systems were small surgical approaches allowing only limited exposure. From our point of view, additional promising indications include vast tumors or recurrent tumors because of altered anatomy with lost landmarks during surgery. The same was the case of patients suffering from plexiform neurofibroma caused by neurofibromatosis type I. Further, intraoperative navigation was helpful to determine the position of foreign bodies during imaging, making the intraoperative location easier.
15352681	Zolpidem for postanoxic spasticity.	A 28-year-old male sustained anoxic brain damage following aborted cardiac arrest, and subsequently developed severe muscular rigidity and spasticity involving all extremities. The spasticity was refractory to the standard regimens used for spastic hypertonia. Zolpidem dramatically inhibited muscular rigidity, spasticity, and dystonic posturing in a dose-dependent manner, resulting in a sustained improvement of his global performance over four years. The authors postulate a central mechanism of action by selective inhibition of GABAergic inhibitory neurons, and suggest a controlled clinical study to investigate the potential efficacy of zolpidem in relieving spasticity related to postanoxic brain injury.
15352903	Review article: the long-term management of ulcerative colitis.	After the induction of remission, the second priority of therapy for ulcerative colitis is sustained clinical remission, defined as the absence of inflammatory symptoms (diarrhoea, bleeding, rectal urgency) and the maintenance of an intact mucosa, with the absence of ulcers, friability or significant granularity at endoscopy. The 'optimal' maintenance strategy will depend on the therapy needed to induce remission. Thus, the transition from induction to maintenance therapy will be determined by the intensity of acute therapy necessary to induce remission and the duration of therapy required to complete the resolution of clinical symptoms. There are few controlled clinical trials pertaining to maintenance after each induction regimen. However, experience dictates that aminosalicylates are efficacious after aminosalicylate-induced remissions, that steroids should be tapered according to the time required to induce remission, that patients requiring ciclosporin will benefit from the addition of long-term immunomodulation with azathioprine or mercaptopurine, and that many patients with distal colitis who require topical mesalazine (mesalamine) will continue to need topical therapy to maintain remission, albeit at reduced frequency. The expectations for maintenance therapy require patient adherence to the prescribed treatment regimen. Patients require education with regard to the long-term goals of maintenance therapy (e.g. prevention of relapse, reduction of long-term complications of disease activity or risks of acute therapy with steroids), and should be warned against the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and cautioned about the cessation of smoking, when applicable, due to potential risks of relapse or chronic activity.
15354207	Favorable outcome of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for relapsed or refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia in childhood.	The optimal therapy for children with relapsed or refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is unclear. We therefore reviewed our institutional outcomes for children undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) for advanced APL. Between 1986 and 2003, 12 allogeneic HSCTs (five related donor, seven unrelated donor) were performed for 11 patients (median age, 13 years) with relapsed (n = 8) or refractory (n = 3) APL. All patients engrafted, after a median of 18.5 days. Grade B-D acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) developed after five transplants (42%; 90% CI, 18-68%), and the cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD was 45% (90% CI, 19-71%). The cumulative incidence of overt relapse post-HSCT was 10% (90% CI, 0-28%). The overall 5-year survival was 73% (90% confidence interval (CI), 51-95%), with a median post-HSCT follow-up of 64 months. The Lansky/Karnofsky performance scores are 100% in six of eight survivors. In view of the low risk of subsequent relapse and favorable survival suggested by other reports and our own experience, we continue to recommend allogeneic HSCT for children with advanced APL for whom a suitably HLA-matched donor is identified.
15364095	Genetic design of feature spaces for pattern classifiers.	Functional piecewise approximation seeks data representation that is compact, highly simplified and meaningful. This study presents a genetic algorithm (GA)-based approach for computing a piecewise polynomial representation of functions, with the focus being on piecewise linear approximation in an application of biomedical spectral data. The area of piecewise linear approximation has been researched in the past four decades approximately, and the method presented here is compared with another well-known approach. The expansion of this method to piecewise polynomial representation is shown to be straightforward. Finally, the application of this method as a feature extraction method for classification of a dataset of feature vectors, specifically biomedical spectra, is demonstrated.
15365399	The effect of Helicobacter pylori eradication on gastroesophageal reflux disease.	BACKGROUND: The effect of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication on gastroesophageal reflux disease is controversial. We aimed to investigate the effect of H. pylori eradication in this group of patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-four consecutive patients with H. pylori infection and reflux esophagitis (grade 1 or 2) were enrolled into the study. Twenty-four hour intra-esophageal pH recording and esophageal manometry were performed before and 3 months after eradication of H. pylori, which was achieved using lansoprazole 30 mg b.i.d., amoxycillin 1 g b.i.d., and clarithromycin 500 mg b.i.d. for 14 days. H. pylori was evaluated in biopsy specimens taken from the antrum and corpus by rapid urease test and by histopathologic examination before and 3 months after eradication. RESULTS: Eighteen patients (11 men and 7 women, median age 42 years) completed the study. Three months after the treatment, there was no significant change in any of the 24-hour esophageal pH recording parameters and mean lower esophageal sphincter resting pressure (P > 0.05). The percentage of total time esophageal pH &lt;4 increased in 10 patients, and decreased in 8 patients. There was a significant decrease in the scores of heartburn and regurgitation (P &lt; 0.01). Esophagitis persisted in 16 patients and disappeared in 2 patients. Esophagitis score decreased in 6 patients, and did not change in 12 patients (P &lt; 0.05). CONCLUSION: H. pylori eradication does not have any effect on gastroesophageal acid reflux in patients with reflux esophagitis 3 months after eradication, but significant improvement is achieved in some reflux associated symptoms.
15365716	Upper limb abnormalities in mosaic trisomy 8 syndrome.	INTRODUCTION: Skeletal abnormalities are known to be a characteristic feature of the trisomy 8 syndrome, and radiological malformations are often more characteristic than the clinical features. CASE PRESENTATION: We report a mentally retarded male known to have mosaic trisomy 8 syndrome who presented with radial deviation of his right wrist. Radiographs showed an open ulna epiphysis with a closed radial epiphysis. Surgery was postponed until an older age as his ulna epiphysis had not yet closed, but clinical correction was achieved with a wrist brace. CONCLUSION: This is the first report of radial deviation of the wrist in a patient with mosaic trisomy 8.
15367873	Kidney transplantation: the evolving challenges.	Kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for patients with end stage renal disease. Kidney transplantation not only improves the quality of life but also prolongs life. Over the last decade, the short-term allograft survival rate has been improved dramatically. Chronic allograft nephropathy and death from cardiovascular diseases become predominant causes of later graft loss. Prevention and treatment of these disease processes require a comprehensive approach. The ever-increasing shortage of organ supply becomes the greatest challenge for the transplant community and modern medicine. More and more patients are waiting for organs; many of them are dying while waiting. Xenotransplantation and organ engineering and cloning are promising techniques and can potentially provide organs for transplantation in the future.
15368797	Otoacoustic emissions: a new method for newborn hearing screening.	Pediatric deafness is a handicap affecting approximately 2/1000 newborns. Currently, its diagnosis is markedly delayed, since it occurs approximately at 24 to 36 months of age; at this age rehabilitation procedures (i.e., acoustic prosthesis, speech therapy, psychological interventions on the family, or cochlear implants in the most serious situations) are unable to ensure a complete development of both the voice and the speech, thus preventing the full participation of the deaf child in social living. The turning point has taken place when methods and techniques were developed; they are aimed at the very early diagnosis of infantile deafness and are based on the recordings of otoacoustic emissions, that is, acoustic signals of extremely weak intensity originating in the inner ear, which not only is a passive transducer, but is able to generate sounds also. Any lack of or any change in otoacoustic emissions is a accurate index of disabling deafness. The test under study allows to perform selectively a mass screening on newborns (it is carried out 2 or 3 days after birth) since it is definetely non-invasive, it is done very rapidly (a few seconds only), it is cost-effective and higly reliable. The newborn hearing screening is being accepted, at a faster growing pace, by an increasing number of health systems in the whole world.
15375748	Sublethal effects of linear alkylbenzene sulphonate on larvae of the seabream (Sparus aurata): histological approach.	Neonate (&lt; 24 h) larvae of the seabream, Sparus aurata, were exposed to sublethal concentrations (0.1-1.0 mg x L(-1)) of the anionic surfactant Linear Alkyl-benzene Sulphonate (LAS) for 72 h under laboratory conditions. The first histopathological changes, such as peri-yolk sac edema, were observed at concentrations of 0.2 mg x L(-1). Higher exposure concentrations provoked disorganisation of the nervous system, trunk musculature and trophoblastic sincitium as well as in the digestive epithelium. Immunohystochemical CYP1A analysis, however, was not shown to be an adequate indicator of sublethal effects produced by exposure to this type of anionic surfactant
15384013	Coronary revascularization in patients with renal insufficiency: restenosis rate and cardiovascular outcomes.	BACKGROUND: Several interventional trials have shown a lower success rate for coronary angioplasty and lower long-term event-free survival in patients with renal insufficiency, and data are conflicting about restenosis after coronary angioplasty. METHODS: This study included 4,131 consecutive patients with coronary artery disease treated with coronary angioplasty (23%) or stenting (77%). Renal insufficiency is defined as a creatinine clearance (CrCl) less than 60 mL/min (&lt;1.0 mL/s). Of 4,131 patients, 1,412 patients (34.2%) had renal insufficiency and 2,719 patients (65.8%) did not have renal insufficiency. The primary end point of the study is clinical restenosis, defined as the need for target-lesion revascularization. RESULTS: There was no difference in clinical restenosis rates between groups after 1 year (18.8% versus 18.4%; P = 0.75). The incidence of angiographic restenosis at the 6-month angiography was 32.7% in the group with renal insufficiency and 29.7% in the group without renal insufficiency ( P = 0.10). The composite end point of death and myocardial infarction was observed more frequently in patients with than without renal insufficiency (8.3% versus 3.2%; P &lt; 0.001). Renal insufficiency was not independently associated with clinical restenosis (for 10-mL/min [0.167-mL/s]) decrease in CrCl, adjusted odds ratio, 1.03; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.98 to 1.08; P = 0.198), but remained as an independent predictor for death or myocardial infarction (for 10-mL/min [0.167-mL/s] decrease in CrCl, hazard ratio, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.18 to 1.42; P &lt; 0.001). CONCLUSION: Patients with renal insufficiency do not show an increased incidence of restenosis after coronary revascularization.
15457741	3D reconstruction and analysis of the whole trunk surface for non-invasive follow-up of scoliotic deformities.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 3D reconstruction accuracy of a new technology that allows the acquisition of the whole trunk and to develop a software to analyse the trunk surface asymmetry. A non-invasive active vision system provides a 3D textured reconstruction of the whole trunk. The analysis system provides the clinician with quantitative indices that characterize the whole external trunk asymmetry.
15457793	Ground water flow parameterization of an Appalachian coal mine complex.	We examined a large (240 km2) northern Appalachian bituminous coal basin (Irwin Syncline, Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania) comprising 27 mine complexes with nine major (> 2.5 x 10(3) L/min) discharges. The synclinal basin was divided into seven subbasins based on equilibrium hydraulic relationships established during the past 25 years. Recharge rates, mine pool velocity, and residence times respond to hydraulic changes in the overburden induced by mine subsidence. The estimated maximum depth for subsidence fractures is 60 m (30 times mined thickness) with recharge rates decreasing significantly in subbasins with thicker overburden (> 75 m). Calculated subbasin recharge rates range from 2 to 6 x 10(-4) L/min/m2 and are significantly lower than the previously used rate for the basin. Residence time of ground water in the Irwin subbasins calculated using average linear velocity ranged from one to five years and were more consistent with field observations than estimates obtained using discharge and basin volume area. A positive correlation (r2 = 0.80) exists between net alkalinity of the mine water-impacted discharges and residence time in the mine pools. Our results for the Irwin coal basin suggest that use of a subbasin approach incorporating overburden depth, mining methodology, and the extent of postmining inundation will lead to improved determination of ground water flow parameters in mined watersheds in northern Appalachia and elsewhere.
15461101	Organic explosives analysis using on column-ion trap EI/NICI GC-MS with an external source.	In this study, a standard method by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (GC/MS) for the analysis of classical organic explosives was developed. This method was validated in the EI mode, based on the XPT 90-210 standard method. Detection limits (LOD) and quantitation limits (LOQ) were both determined using electronic impact (EI) and negative ion chemical ionization (NICI) modes. These were compared and results showed that in the NICI mode, detection limits were lower than in the EI mode, thus NICI mode appeared to be the best way to analyze nitrate esters. Results of ion trap MS detection were then compared with those obtained in a previous study with single quadrupolar technology. Major ions that were obtained using ion trap MS detection in these two modes were reported.
15462131	International trends in bioassay use for effluent management.	The use of effluent bioassays in various international jurisdictions is reviewed, resulting in an analysis of themes and trends in: regulatory use, different uses of bioassays in meeting protection goals, different types of bioassays, bioassay test variability, statistical design, use of effluent bioassays to predict receiving environment effects, and uptake of effluent bioassay testing by developing countries. Current effluent bioassay use by jurisdictions in North America, the European Union, and Asia/Pacific is described. The historical trend for many jurisdictions has been to start with chemical hazard-based systems, then add effluent bioassays (first lethal, then sublethal measures) and then use receiving environment evaluations to predict or measure impacts. For jurisdictions adopting effluent bioassays over the past decade, policies about the use of in vivo vertebrate tests appear to be influencing the types of bioassays that are used and there is also a trend towards micro-scale tests. In countries where regulations relating to effluent management do not require effluent bioassays, uptake of bioassays is relatively slow. Good practice for effluent bioassay applications can only be defined with regard to the regulatory regime, as differences between jurisdictions (e.g., hazard-based versus risk-based regimes, policies on in vivo vertebrate testing) will result in different choices.
15462666	Staying human in the medical family: the unique role of doctor-parents.	Issues confronting doctor-parents include the impact of parenting on career choice, special challenges faced by women doctor-parents, leave entitlements, and the unique strengths and challenges of two-doctor families. Experience from one Canadian doctors' health program suggests that unique themes include communication within doctor-families, insight into doctor-parent dynamics, the relationship between doctor-parents and their child's doctor, and potential boundary crossings and violations within the doctor-family. The relationships between medical workforce sustainability, medical human resources, and issues related to doctor-parents need further consideration and analysis.
15462961	CTAB precipitation of cestode DNA.	DNA probes are proving extremely valuable in the characterization o f cestodes - as well as other parasites. In this article, Kok Wei Yap and Andrew Thompson discuss some of the problems of DNA isolation, stressing the need for a gentle and economical procedure such as CTAB precipitation.
15470926	Integrating a MRI scanner with a 6 MV radiotherapy accelerator: dose deposition in a transverse magnetic field.	Integrating magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) functionality with a radiotherapy accelerator can facilitate on-line, soft-tissue based, position verification. A technical feasibility study, in collaboration with Elekta Oncology Systems and Philips Medical Systems, led to the preliminary design specifications of a MRI accelerator. Basically the design is a 6 MV accelerator rotating around a 1.5 T MRI system. Several technical issues and the clinical rational are currently under investigation. The aim of this paper is to determine the impact of the transverse 1.5 T magnetic field on the dose deposition. Monte Carlo simulations were used to calculate the dose deposition kernel in the presence of 1.5 T. This kernel in turn was used to determine the dose deposition for larger fields. Also simulations and measurements were done in the presence of 1.1 T. The pencil beam dose deposition is asymmetric. For larger fields the asymmetry persists but decreases. For the latter the distance to dose maximum is reduced by approximately 5 mm, the penumbra is increased by approximately 1 mm, and the 50% isodose line is shifted approximately 1 mm. The dose deposition in the presence of 1.5 T is affected, but the effect can be taken into account in a conventional treatment planning procedure. The impact of the altered dose deposition for clinical IMRT treatments is the topic of further research.
15471731	The association between asthma and allergic symptoms in children and phthalates in house dust: a nested case-control study.	Global phthalate ester production has increased from very low levels at the end of World War II to approximately 3.5 million metric tons/year. The aim of the present study was to investigate potential associations between persistent allergic symptoms in children, which have increased markedly in developed countries over the past three decades, and the concentration of phthalates in dust collected from their homes. This investigation is a case-control study nested within a cohort of 10,852 children. From the cohort, we selected 198 cases with persistent allergic symptoms and 202 controls without allergic symptoms. A clinical and a technical team investigated each child and her or his environment. We found higher median concentrations of butyl benzyl phthalate (BBzP) in dust among cases than among controls (0.15 vs. 0.12 mg/g dust). Analyzing the case group by symptoms showed that BBzP was associated with rhinitis (p = 0.001) and eczema (p = 0.001), whereas di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) was associated with asthma (p = 0.022). Furthermore, dose-response relationships for these associations are supported by trend analyses. This study shows that phthalates, within the range of what is normally found in indoor environments, are associated with allergic symptoms in children. We believe that the different associations of symptoms for the three major phthalates-BBzP, DEHP, and di-n-butyl phthalate-can be explained by a combination of chemical physical properties and toxicologic potential. Given the phthalate exposures of children worldwide, the results from this study of Swedish children have global implications.
15478880	An overview of legal aspects in organ transplantation--what are the family rights?	A short review of legal aspects of organ transplantation. The influence of type of consent and the family attitude on organ donation rate in all European countries. A special attention is given to the legal and ethical aspects of living organ and tissue transplantation.
15478920	Copper adsorption with Pb and Cd in sand-bentonite liners under various pHs. Part II. Effect on adsorption sites.	The project examined the effect of Pb and Cd on Cu adsorption using sand liners containing 0, 5, and 10% sodium bentonite and exposed to metal solutions at three pH levels (3.7, 5.5, and 7.5). Aliquots of 2 g of liner material were exposed in duplicate, for 14 days, to solutions containing Cu alone or Cu with either Pb or Cd. Selective sequential extraction (SSE) was used to quantity the Cu adsorbed by each liner particle adsorption site (exchangeable, carbonate and hydroxide, oxides and residual). The results indicated that two main factors affected liner material behavior in adsorbing Cu, besides Cd and Pb competition: pH either above or below 6.5; liner cation exchange capacity (CEC) greater or equal and greater than the solution cation equivalence. In general, the liner carbonate and hydroxide fractions precipitated the greatest amount of Cu, under all environmental conditions while the exchangeable, oxide and residual adsorbed more or less the same amount. Lead, and to a lesser extent Cd, significantly increase the mobility of Cu, by competing especially for the exchangeable sites. While Cd also competed against Cu for oxide adsorption, Pb competes for calcium and hydroxide precipitation. Lead, and to a lesser extent Cd, competed especially for the exchangeable site where the adsorption is more dynamic, and less for the more permanent adsorption sites, involving precipitation, and electrostatic bonding.
15487008	Living with achondroplasia: quality of life evaluation following cervico-medullary decompression.	Achondroplasia is the most common of the heritable skeletal dysplasias. Cervico-medullary compression is a frequently encountered and potentially lethal neurological complication. Cervico-medullary decompression (CMD) at the foramen magnum is often employed to relieve the pressure on the emerging cervical cord. Given the inherent risks associated with major surgery, there has been a substantial debate regarding the best criteria for CMD. Our objectives for this study are to explore the quality of life of patients who had undergone CMD, and to assess whether surgery is associated with mortality and increased long-term morbidity. A Medical Outcome Study 36-item Short Form General Health Survey designed to evaluate eight general health concepts as well as achondroplasia-related issues, was administered to patients assessed in the neurosurgery department in Johns Hopkins Hospital between 1977 and 1998. One hundred and sixty-seven patients were eligible for inclusion. Forty-three could not be contacted, and two refused consent. One hundred and twenty-two patients were assessed. Fifty-six (46%) individuals had CMD and 66 (54%) did not. There was 1 case of mortality in the CMD group and 12 cases in the non-CMD group. In the non-CMD group, all deaths, as far as we know, were unrelated to cervico-medullary compression. In this cohort of surviving patients (n = 109), the quality of life of the 55 (50.5%) who had undergone CMD is comparable to that of the 54 (49.5%) who did not have surgery, controlled for age and sex. CMD is indicated for patients with achondroplasia with significant symptomatic foramen magnum compression. It can be life saving. It can abolish profound central apnea that may cause sudden death and alleviate neurological complications associated with damage of the significantly compressed spinal cord. With regards to long-term outcome evaluation, the quality of life of individuals with achondroplasia who had CMD is similar to those age- and sex-matched patients who did not have this surgery. Moreover, CMD, with all its inherent surgical risks, does not appear to be associated with higher mortality or increased long-term morbidity.
15490768	[Acamprosate--new preclinical research aspects]	Acamprosate has been shown to be effective and safe in relapse prevention of alcoholism. The effect of acamprosate is explained by a functional antagonistic action on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Under normal physiological conditions acamprosate augments the functionality of the NDMA receptor, but it inhibits the overactivity of that receptor triggered by alcohol abuse and withdrawal. In addition, conditioned withdrawal phenomena that can lead to a relapse, are also reduced. The substance is not a substitution drug, nor does it have addictive potential. Moreover, it also has a neuroprotective action. Whether acamprosate has a role as a neuroprotective agent in humans needs to be investigated.
15492736	Predictive factors underlying the restoration of macular binocular vision in adults with acquired strabismus.	PURPOSE: To investigate whether macular binocular vision can be permanently lost following acquired strabismus and to identify predictive factors underlying its restoration. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Twenty-three patients with strabismus acquired after binocular vision maturation were enrolled. Factors studied included duration of eye misalignment, age at treatment, pre-surgical strabismus type, pre-surgical diplopia, and pre-surgical capacity for binocularity. The restoration of macular binocular vision was evaluated between 1 and 3 years following successful eye re-alignment and was defined as 60 seconds of arc stereopsis or better on the Titmus circles and/or the Preschool Randot Stereoacuity test. RESULTS: Sixteen of 23 (70%) or 7/23 (30%) of patients achieved macular binocular vision following successful surgical eye realignment using the Titmus circles versus the Preschool Randot Stereoacuity test. Patients with &lt; or =12 months constant eye misalignment were more likely to achieve macular binocular vision following treatment than patients with >12 months constant eye misalignment. CONCLUSIONS: Macular binocular vision continues to be susceptible to permanent loss in adult patients. Factors that are predictive of the restoration of macular binocular vision include duration of constant eye misalignment and the pre-surgical capacity for binocularity.
15492906	[Universal hearing screening in newborns. Recommendations for organizing and conducting universal hearing screening for congenital hearing loss in Germany]	The Interdisciplinary Consensus Conference for Newborn Hearing Screening (IKKNHS) has worked out joint recommendations for universal hearing screening of newborns. In the consensus paper, 11 professional associations and scientific societies in the fields of gynecology and obstetrics, ENT, pediatrics, and phoniatrics and pedaudiology came to an agreement on how to implement newborn hearing screening in Germany. The paper deals with the following topics: goals of universal newborn hearing screening, target group of hearing screening, schedule for screening, personnel involved in the screening program, technologies and framework conditions of hearing screening, documentation, continuous quality control of screening, confirmation diagnostics for conspicuous test subjects, motivation to take part in screening, information on newborn hearing screening, tracking, various infrastructural situations in urban and rural regions, follow-up care, in-patient vs. out-patient screening, cost factors of screening, reporting children with permanent hearing loss to the German Central Registry for hearing loss in children.
15494653	NMAP: UK's nursing Internet gateway.	This article describes the development of NMAP, the UK academic gateway to high-quality Internet resources for Nurses, Midwives and Allied health Professionals. The service is described and the rationale for NMAP summarized, focusing on the increasing use of Internet resources in nursing education and practice. International concerns over the quality of health information available on the Internet are considered, and the approach adopted by NMAP to quality filtering described. The usage data and results of evaluation studies show the need for this type of Internet gateway, and some of the lessons may be relevant to others involved in developing national high-quality Internet gateways for nurses.
15496260	Protective behavior survey, West Nile virus, British Columbia.	We investigated personal protective behaviors against West Nile virus infection. Barriers to adopting these behaviors were identified, including the perception that DEET (N,N-diethyl-m-toluamide and related compounds) is a health and environmental hazard. Televised public health messages and knowing that family or friends practiced protective behaviors were important cues to action.
15499427	[Isolated Crohn's disease of the appendix as a source of enterorrhagia]	BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease confined to the appendix is relatively rare as a sole primary manifestation of the disease. Young people are more affected. The medical history and the physical examination are similar to the findings in acute appendicitis, but the manifestations are protracted. On physical examination there are signs of peritoneal irritation and an abdominal mass is palpable in the right iliac fossa. AIMS: To report a case of Crohn's disease confined to the appendix and presenting with enterorrhagia. The source of the bleeding was localized by colonoscopy. PATIENT: A 16-year old caucasian male without past history of gastrointestinal symptoms, presented with two episodes of enterorrhagia within a period of one year. In the second episode colonoscopy identified the appendicular ostium as the source of bleeding. RESULTS: At operation the cecum and terminal ileum were normal in thickness and texture, and an inflammatory appendix adherent to the omentum was removed. Microscopically there were non-caseating granulomas, intense infiltration of the wall with plasma cells, lymphocytes and macrophages. The patient has not suffered recurrence, and a colonoscopy realized 2 years after the operation did not show signs of Crohn's disease. CONCLUSION: This case, like others in the literature, appendectomy is curative, but a 5-year follow-up is mandatory. When a young patient presents with enterorrhagia, this diagnosis has to be considered.
15504438	Antioxidant activity of phenylpropanoid esters isolated and identified from Platycodon grandiflorum A. DC.	Platycodon grandiflorum A. DC (Campanulaceae) is used as a traditional oriental medicine and also as a food in Korea. Here we investigated its antioxidant activity, and isolated and identified its active compounds. Petroleum ether extracts from the whole root of P. grandiflorum were fractionated by silica gel column chromatography using a solvent gradient (petroleum ether:diethyl ether, v/v; 9:1-5:5). The 8:2 fraction showed a higher radical scavenging activity than the other fractions, and active compounds were purified from this fraction by reversed-phased HPLC. Two active compounds were identified as coniferyl alcohol esters of palmitic and oleic acids by FAB-MS, UV, IR and NMR spectroscopy. The antioxidant activities of these two compounds, which were evaluated by 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), superoxide and nitric oxide radical scavenging capacity, were found to be as high as those of BHT or BHA.
15509018	On the characterization of environmental nanoparticles.	The presence and release of nanoparticles into the environment has important implications for human health and the environment. This article highlights and describes techniques that are effective in the characterization of anthropogenic and naturally occurring nanoparticles. Particle attributes like size, size distribution, shape, structure, microstructure, composition, and homogeneity are critically important to determining the potential impact of such materials on health and the environment. Many techniques yield data for a collection of nanoparticles; while others yield data for individual nanoparticles; and still others yield data showing the size, distribution of chemical species, and variations in structure and microstructure for a single nanoparticle. All are important in the context of environmental nanoparticles. Many of these techniques are complementary, and depending on the information required, the ideal characterization usually employs multiple techniques.
15510390	Expanding role of conformulations in the treatment of HIV infection: impact of fixed-dose combinations.	Fixed-dose combination therapy is more convenient than combination therapy with the same drugs taken separately and can improve adherence. Improved adherence is often associated with enhanced outcomes, which, in turn, can reduce the cost of care. In addition, the lower costs of generic fixed-dose combinations in resource-poor areas can extend treatment to larger numbers of patients who would otherwise have no access to antiretrovirals at all. In any setting, fixed-dose combinations reduce the number of pills, simplify the dosing regimen; are easier to take; ensure that the correct dosage of each component is taken; and are more cost effective.
15510892	[Acute, stroke or thunderclap headache?]	Sudden, acute headache occurring for the first time in life may represent subarachnoid or perimesencephalic haemorrhage but it can also occur in the absence of pathologic conditions. This headache is widely named as &quot;thunderclap&quot; (TCH) or &quot;stroke headache&quot;. Pathogenesis, diagnostic evaluation and headache characteristics is presented basing on retrospective evaluation of such patients admitted to Neurological Department between 1990-2002 with symptoms of TCH. The diagnosis of idiopathic TCH was established in 74 (21%) of 368 patients. No clinically significant difference between clinical manifestation of idiopathic and symptomatic TCH was observed. The most common concomitant diseases in idiopathic TCH patients were acute or chronic infections and hypertension. 40% of those patients had elevated inflammatory markers which normalised during hospitalisation in 20% of cases. We observed seasonal incidence with the highest incidence in summer and winter. 20% of patients presented to Neurological Dept with TCH consist of idiopathic, benign condition of unknown aetiology. Observed seasonal incidence with coexisting signs of infection may suggest the role of inflammatory process in benign TCH pathogenesis.
15513287	Estimating the stability of census-based racial/ethnic classifications: the case of Brazil.	This study presents a method of estimating the degree to which people change their racial/ethnic identity from one census enumeration to another. The technique is applied to the classification of skin colour in Brazil (white, black, brown, yellow). For the period 1950-80, the findings show a deficit of 38 per cent in the black category and a gain of 34 per cent in the brown category, suggesting that a large proportion of individuals who declared themselves black in 1950 reclassified themselves as brown in 1980. Estimates for 1980-90, adjusted for the effects of international migration, reveal a similar pattern, although the magnitude of colour reclassification may have declined somewhat during the 1980s. Procedures to determine the stability of racial/ethnic identity produce data useful to recent policy initiatives that rely on demographic censuses to measure changes in the status of minority groups in less developed countries.
15515889	In vitro and in vivo antibacterial activities of the tricyclic ketolide TE-802 and its analogs.	The in vitro and in vivo antibacterial activities of tricyclic ketolides (TKs: TE-802, TE-806, TE-935, TE-943) have been compared with those of clarithromycin (CAM), azithromycin (AZM) and rokitamycin (RKM). TKs were active against not only erythromycin (EM)-susceptible organisms; aerobic gram-positive bacteria, some gram-negative bacteria, anaerobic bacteria and Mycoplasma pneumoniae, but also EM-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (inducible macrolide-resistant strains) as well as EM-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae (efflux-resistant strains). The therapeutic efficacies of TKs against systemic infections and respiratory tract infection (RTI) caused by gram-positive bacteria in mice are superior to those of CAM and AZM. The peak plasma levels (Cmax, p.o.) of TE-802 in mice were equal to that of CAM, but the plasma area under the concentration-time curve (AUC(24 hours)) was 4.7 times that for CAM. The plasma Cmax (p.o.) value for TE-802 in monkey was equal to that of CAM, whereas the AUC(8 hours) value was three-fourths that of CAM. The pharmacokinetics of TE-802 are similar to those of AZM in mice and monkeys, suggesting the potential for once-daily administration in humans.
15517811	[Epidemiology of parasitic diseases in military personnel treated in the United Nations Interim Force hospital in Lebanon, from 1993 to 2000]	The study examined the incidence and prevalence of parasitic diseases among military personnel of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) and local civilian population. Additionally, the authors investigated the potential risk factors, including environmental conditions, influencing the incidence of infectious diseases. Epidemiological analysis was conducted based on the medial records of patients treated in the Internal and Surgical Ward of the UNIFIL Hospital from 1993 to 2000. The patients with parasitic diseases accounted for 3.78% of all patients hospitalized during the analyzed period. The most frequent infectious diseases treated during that time were trichuriasis, ancylostomiasis, giardiasis and ascariasis.
15519382	Vapour pressures, aqueous solubilities, Henry's Law constants, and octanol/water partition coefficients of a series of mixed halogenated dimethyl bipyrroles.	Basic physical-chemical properties of five bromine and chlorine containing mixed halogenated dimethyl bipyrroles (HDBPs) were determined using established methods. Subcooled liquid vapour pressures (P(o)(L,25)), aqueous solubilities (S(w,25)), and octanol/water partition coefficients (K(ow)) were determined using the gas chromatography-retention time, generator column, and slow-stirring methods, respectively. Henry's Law constants (H25) were estimated using experimentally-derived P(o)(L) and S(w,25) data. Values of all four properties were generally similar to those reported for other polyhalogenated aromatic compounds [P(o)(L,25) = (7.55-191) x 10(-6) Pa; S(w,25) = (1.0-1.9) x 10(-5) g/l; log K(ow) = 6.4-6.7; H25 = 0.0020-0.14 Pa m3/mol]. The effect of replacing a chlorine with a bromine atom significantly decreased P(o)(L,25) (log P(o)(L,25) = -0.4197 (# bromine atoms) - 2.643, p&lt;0.01) and H25 (log H25 = -0.508 (# bromine atoms) + 0.394, p&lt;0.02). There were no significant effects of bromine/chlorine substitution on S(w,25) or K(ow). A simple Level I equilibrium partitioning model predicted the environmental behaviour of HDBPs to be similar to a tetrabrominated diphenyl ether. Only slight differences in behaviour amongst HDBP congeners were predicted since substitution of a bromine for a chlorine (Cl/Br substitution) atom had less effect than H/Cl or H/Br substitution on P(o)(L,25), S(w,25), H25, and K(ow).
15519541	Modulation of the immune response to an Aeromonas hydrophila aroA live vaccine in rainbow trout: effect of culture media on the humoral immune response and complement consumption.	The Aeromonas hydrophila aroA is an attenuated strain that has been assessed as a live vaccine in rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss. In this study the effects of different culture media used to grow the strain on its survival after in vitro exposure to rainbow trout serum, and on its immunogenicity in rainbow trout were compared. Four culture media were tested: Luria broth (LB), Luria broth with 0.25% glucose, trypticase soy broth (TSB), and brain-heart infusion broth (BHIB). Bacteria grown in culture media with glucose (TSB, BHIB and LB with 0.25% glucose) showed reduced complement consumption and a lower serum susceptibility. O. mykiss vaccinated with inocula prepared with BHIB- and LB-grown aroA cells resuspended in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) showed higher and longer-lasting serum agglutinating antibody titres than those vaccinated with TSB-grown bacteria. Thus, a direct relationship between serum resistance and immunogenicity could not be established, but BHIB and LB culture media were the most effective in increasing the immunogenicity of the A. hydrophila aroA vaccine.
15520304	Extracorporeal cardiac shock wave therapy markedly ameliorates ischemia-induced myocardial dysfunction in pigs in vivo.	BACKGROUND: Prognosis of ischemic cardiomyopathy still remains poor because of the lack of effective treatments. To develop a noninvasive therapy for the disorder, we examined the in vitro and vivo effects of extracorporeal shock wave (SW) that could enhance angiogenesis. METHODS AND RESULTS: SW treatment applied to cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells significantly upregulated mRNA expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and its receptor Flt-1 in vitro. A porcine model of chronic myocardial ischemia was made by placing an ameroid constrictor at the proximal segment of the left circumflex coronary artery, which gradually induced a total occlusion of the artery with sustained myocardial dysfunction but without myocardial infarction in 4 weeks. Thereafter, extracorporeal SW therapy to the ischemic myocardial region (200 shots/spot for 9 spots at 0.09 mJ/mm2) was performed (n=8), which induced a complete recovery of left ventricular ejection fraction (51+/-2% to 62+/-2%), wall thickening fraction (13+/-3% to 30+/-3%), and regional myocardial blood flow (1.0+/-0.2 to 1.4+/-0.3 mL x min(-1) x g(-1)) of the ischemic region in 4 weeks (all P&lt;0.01). By contrast, animals that did not receive the therapy (n=8) had sustained myocardial dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction, 48+/-3% to 48+/-1%; wall thickening fraction, 13+/-2% to 9+/-2%) and regional myocardial blood flow (1.0+/-0.3 to 0.6+/-0.1 mL x min(-1) x g(-1)). Neither arrhythmias nor other complications were observed during or after the treatment. SW treatment of the ischemic myocardium significantly upregulated vascular endothelial growth factor expression in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that extracorporeal cardiac SW therapy is an effective and noninvasive therapeutic strategy for ischemic heart disease.
15522009	Use of sulesomab in the diagnosis of brucellar spondylitis.	Twenty-two patients with suspected brucellar spondylitis were investigated to evaluate the possible diagnostic role of Sulesomab, a (99m)Tc-antigranulocyte antibody Fab' fragment. Sensitivity and specificity were compared with those of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Skeletal involvement was detected by MRI in 11 cases, while leukoscintigraphy indicated normal vertebral uptake in seven of these patients, increased uptake in two patients, and decreased uptake in two patients. Leukoscintigraphy of the 11 patients negative by MRI demonstrated increased uptake in two cases. The sensitivity and specificity of leukoscintigraphy were 27.2% and 81.1%, respectively. Based on these results, leukoscintigraphy is not indicated for the management of patients with suspected brucellar spondylitis.
15523449	Endoscopic approach to orbital blowout fracture repair.	OBJECTIVES: Transconjunctival and subciliary approaches to orbital floor blowout fractures (OBF) have known risks of postoperative eyelid malposition. This study evaluates the endoscopic transmaxillary repair of OBFs in a cadaveric model and clinical setting. METHODS: Sixteen cadaveric and 10 clinical OBFs were repaired endoscopically. A Caldwell-Luc approach and modified sinus surgery instrumentation were used to repair each fracture. Variations in fracture pattern, instrumentation, and surgical technique were evaluated. RESULTS: Endoscopic repair was achieved in all 16 cadaveric orbits and in 9 of 10 patients. Fracture patterns were classified as either medial or lateral to the infraorbital nerve. Average clinical operating time was 1:38. Of 9 postoperative CT scans, 5 were rated as excellent, 3 as good, and 1 as poor. CONCLUSIONS: The endoscopic transmaxillary approach is a safe, viable technique for OBF repair. It offers improved visualization, anatomic fracture repair, no risk of postoperative eyelid complications, and good clinical results. EBM rating: C.
15525103	Double-dot charge qubit and transport via dissipative cotunneling.	We investigate transport through an exotic charge qubit composed of two strongly capacitively coupled quantum dots, each being independently connected to a side gate which in general exhibits a fluctuating electrostatic field (i.e., Johnson-Nyquist noise). Two quantum phases are found: the &quot;Kondo&quot; phase where an orbital-Kondo entanglement emerges and a &quot;local moment&quot; phase in which the noise destroys the Kondo effect leaving the orbital spin unscreened and resulting in a clear suppression of the conductance. In the Kondo realm, the transfer of charge across the setting is accompanied by zero-point charge fluctuations in the two dissipative environments and then the I-V characteristics are governed by what we call &quot;dissipative cotunneling.&quot;
15525931	Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: which graft is best?	Abstract For the last 4 decades, since the initial use of the patellar tendon for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction, there has been controversy regarding the ideal graft choice for this procedure. Beside bone-patellar tendon-bone autografts, several other graft choices have become popular, including hamstring tendon and a variety of allografts. Within the past 5 years, several randomized and nonrandomized studies have compared the graft choices in ACL reconstruction. However, the question still remains: Is there an ideal graft for ACL reconstruction? The purpose of this review is to assess the most recent data, identifying if there truly is an ideal graft choice.
15527887	Immature developmental pattern of the monosynaptic reflex in isolated spinal cord of glial mutant taiep rats.	There is increasing evidence suggesting that glial cells play a crucial role in the formation and maturation of neural circuits. However, little is known about the effects of glial alterations on the establishment of functional circuitry in vivo during the development. The taiep rat, a long-lived neurological mutant characterized by early astrogliosis and demyelination affecting selectively the CNS, provides an interesting model to study the glia-neuron interaction in situ. In the present study, we evaluated the functional development of segmental neural circuits recording the monosynaptic reflex responses (MSR) in the isolated spinal cord of neonatal taiep rats. To evaluate the developmental changes during the first two postnatal weeks, we measured the latency of MSR, the magnitude of depression to paired pulses and the time course of post-tetanic recovery. During the early postnatal period, the MSR of control rats reduced their latency and decreased their sensitivity to depression, as a function of age. By contrast, the MSR of taiep rats failed to develop further from neonatal stage. Near the end of the second postnatal week, the MSR latencies were still prolonged, and the MSR showed a significantly stronger paired pulse depression, and higher post-tetanic recovery times than the age-matched controls. The lack of MSR maturation in taiep rats suggests an early alteration of functional mechanisms underlying the maturation of the spinal reflexes, probably due to the characteristic glial dysfunction(s) of this mutant.
15529240	[Acute ischemia after intraarterial drug injection]	HISTORY AND CLINICAL FINDINGS: A 36-year-old patient presented with a severe hand ischemia after intraarterial injection of four dissolved tablets of Methylphenidate each 10 mg (Ritalin into the right radial artery. INVESTIGATIONS: Non-invasive vascular diagnostic demonstrated a normal perfusion of the radial and ulnar artery and a severe ischemia of the small vessels of the right hand. TREATMENT AND COURSE: Under suspicion of a combined vaso-spastic and thromboembolic arterial occlusion we started an intraarterial lysis therapy followed by anticoagulation with heparin and infusions of prostaglandines. Despite this therapy necroses of three fingers developed; partial amputation was followed by a good wound healing. CONCLUSIONS: Ischemia of an extremity after intraarterial injection of drugs is a vascular emergency.
15530970	Determination of microcystin variants and related peptides present in a water bloom of Planktothrix (Oscillatoria) rubescens in a Spanish drinking water reservoir by LC/ESI-MS.	A water bloom of Planktothrix (Oscillatoria) rubescens was observed in a drinking water reservoir in central Spain in 2003. Microcystins where analysed by LC/ESI-MS in 21 samples collected from this reservoir in five different days between March and May. A demethylated variant of microcystin-RR was identified as the major microcystin in most samples. Trace levels of microcystin-LR, -RR and -YR were detected in some samples. Four less common microcystins, with [M+H]+ ions at m/z 960, 981, 1045 and 1053, were also found. Total extracellular microcystin concentration varied from 0.010 to 19.126 microg l(-1). Furthermore, anabaenopeptins B and F as well as Oscillamide Y were also identified in these samples.
15531013	Dose-response relationship with increasing doses of dextromethorphan for children with cough.	BACKGROUND: The efficacy of dextromethorphan (DM) for treating acute cough is uncertain, and its use is not supported by the American Academy of Pediatrics. Nevertheless, DM is often administered to children as an antitussive. DM dosages are based on age rather than body weight, resulting in substantial variability in the relative amount of drug administered. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this work was to determine whether a dose-response relationship existed among a group of children administered a single nocturnal dose of DM for cough due to an upper respiratory tract infection. METHODS: As part of a larger double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of over-the-counter cough medications, children received DM. The administered doses (per manufacturer recommendations) were as follows: ages 2 to 5 years, 7.5 mg; ages 6 to 11 years, 15 mg; and ages 12 to 18 years, 30 mg. This resulted in a range of 0.35 to 0.94 mg/kg per dose. Subjective parental assessments of cough and sleep were obtained using a 7-point Likert-type scale that compared symptoms after medication with symptoms during the prior night (without medication). Three dose ranges were compared as a subset analysis of the group that received DM. RESULTS: Thirty-three patients (19 girls, 14 boys; median [interquartile range] age, 4.90 [2.90-6.80] years; age range, 2.10-16.50 years) received DM and completed the study. No significant differences were found for any of the outcome measures when comparing the effects of different doses of DM, but our observations suggested somewhat more symptomatic relief for patients receiving medium-dose DM (0.45 to &lt;0.60 mg/kg per dose) or high-dose (HD) DM (0.60-0.94 mg/kg per dose) compared with low-dose DM (0.35 to &lt;0.45 mg/kg per dose). Adverse events occurred most often in the HD group. CONCLUSIONS: Although no statistically significant differences were detectable for the outcomes studied, our observations suggest the potential for improved clinical symptom control with increasing doses of DM. Our findings may further suggest that a dose of 0.5 mg/kg should be considered in future assessments of the antitussive effect of DM in pediatric studies, to balance symptomatic relief with the avoidance of adverse events.
15535459	The role of social factors and weight status in ideal body-shape preferences as perceived by Arab women.	This study investigated the social factors associated with body-shape preferences for females and males as perceived by Arab women living in Qatar, and correlated the current weight status of women studied with these preferences. The subjects were 535 non-pregnant Arab women aged 20-67 years, who attended heath centres in Doha City, the capital of the State of Qatar. Illustrations of male and female body shapes ranging from very thin to very obese using the 9-figure Silhouettes scale were shown to women, and they were asked to select their preferred figure. Body mass index (BMI) was used to determine the weight status of women studied. Age, educational level and employment status were found to be significantly associated with ideal body-shape preference for both males and females, whereas marital status and current weight status had no significant association. In general, the Arab women studied selected a more mid-range of body fatness for males than for females. It is concluded that attention should be given to sociocultural factors, such as body-shape preferences, in any programmes to promote ideal body weight for the public.
15537212	A generic interface to XML documents for guidance information.	We present a generic means of interfacing XML documents and clinical systems. The interface has been developed to allow the integration of best practice guidance information within prescribing systems. The interface has the following characteristics: (1) integrating developers do not have to interpret the structure of the XML documents, (2) inconsistencies between integrations are reduced, (3) the structure of the XML documents can change without affecting integration and (4) specification and documentation of the NDR document interface is within the interface itself.
15537426	Locomotor activity in common spiny mice (Acomys cahirinuse): the effect of light and environmental complexity.	BACKGROUND: Rodents typically avoid illuminated and open areas, favoring dark or sheltered environments for activity. While previous studies focused on the effect of these environmental attributes on the level of activity, the present study tested whether the spatio-temporal structure of activity was also modified in illuminated compared with dark and complex compared with open arenas. For this, we tested common spiny mice (Acomys cahirinus) in empty or stone-containing arenas with lights on or lights off. RESULTS: In an illuminated or open arena, spiny mice moved in less frequent but longer trips with relatively long distances between consecutive stops. In contrast, in either a dark arena or an arena with stones, the animals took shorter and more frequent trips, with more stops per trip and shorter inter-stop distances. In illuminated arenas spiny mice remained mainly along the walls, whereas locomotion in the center was more prevalent in dark empty arenas, and was carried out along convoluted paths. Increasing environmental complexity by adding stones to either illuminated or dark arenas increased locomotion along straight trajectories and away from walls. CONCLUSIONS: Earlier findings of reduced activity in illuminated or open areas have been extended in the present study by demonstrating changes in the spatio-temporal structure of locomotor behavior. In the more complex arenas (with stones) spiny mice traveled along short straight segments whereas in the open their trips were longer and took the shape of a zigzag path which is more effective against fast or nearby predators. Alternatively, the zigzag path may reflect a difficulty in navigation.
15539873	Cephalic index is not a useful sonographic marker for trisomy 21 and trisomy 18.	OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether the cephalic index (CI) in trisomy 21 (T21) and trisomy 18 (T18) fetuses is different from that in euploid fetuses, and if so, is this difference of clinical utility. METHODS: Retrospective. Over an 18-month period, patients attending a single centre for routine advanced maternal age amniocentesis were recruited for a prospective study of ultrasound soft markers of aneuploidy. This prospective database was searched for cases with the following criteria: (1) occipitofrontal diameters (OFD) measured at least twice; (2) gestational age between 98 and 126 days either by ultrasound-confirmed menstrual dates or early second- trimester biometry; (3) no major central nervous system abnormalities detected on prenatal ultrasound, and (4) normal fetal karyotype. This constituted the control group. The study group consisted of all cases of prenatally diagnosed T18 and T21 identified in the same time period with criterion 2 as above. The fetuses in the study group had the OFD measured in a blinded fashion from the biparietal diameter images. CI (= mean biparietal diameter/mean OFD) was calculated for all fetuses. Pearson coefficient and regression analysis were used to determine independence of CI to gestational age in the control group. Standard descriptive statistics were used to describe interval data and two-tailed t test was used to compare means between the study and control groups. ROC curves were constructed to evaluate the clinical efficacy of CI for T18 and T21. RESULTS: Five hundred and ninety-seven fetuses were available for analysis. There were 551 fetuses in the control group and 46 in the study group. Within the study group, there were 30 T21 and 16 T18 fetuses. Within the control group, CI was independent of gestational age (R = 0.026, p = 0.922). Mean CI for the control group was 0.802 (SD 0.040) and this was not statistical different from either the T21 group (mean 0.816, SD 0.042, p = 0.067) or the T18 group (mean 0.792, SD 0.057, p = 0.491). Area under the ROC curves was determined for both T18 and T21 and both had poor results (0.545 and 0.598, respectively). When CI was evaluated in the control group according to the two main ethnic groups in the study, there was a trend towards a statistical difference (p = 0.046) between the fetuses of Oriental and Caucasian mothers. CONCLUSIONS: In this retrospective study, CI was not found to be statistically different between the study and control groups. Although a trend towards significance was seen with T21, this difference is not clinically useful. There may be interethnic differences in the CI between fetuses. CI is not useful for aneuploidy screening by ultrasound.
15542752	Clinical features of nicotine dependence compared with those of alcohol, methamphetamine, and inhalant dependence.	A new clinical evaluation form was developed to compare the clinical features of nicotine dependence with those associated with other abused drugs. A new scoring system for clinical evaluation was developed. The form consisted of five scoring items: subjective effects, liking (of drug), withdrawal syndrome, acute psychic and physical disorders, and social disturbance. A preliminary clinical investigation was performed to test the validity of the evaluation form. Study subjects were those showing dependence on nicotine (cigarette smoking, n = 40), alcohol (n = 39), methamphetamine (n = 31), and inhalants (n = 30), who fulfilled the DSM-IV-TR criteria for drug dependence disregarding the state of &quot;a maladaptive pattern of substance use, leading to clinically significant impairment or distress,&quot; and gave written informed consent for participation in the study. Nicotine caused a mild or the least degree of subjective effects, liking, and psychic and physical withdrawal symptoms, without any significant social disturbance or acute disorders. With alcohol, liking, withdrawal syndrome, and acute physical disorders were prominent. Methamphetamine produced the most serious acute psychic disorders, with intensive acute physical disorders and psychic withdrawal symptoms. Inhalants were characterized by an intensive degree of acute psychic disorders. As for social disturbance, alcohol, methamphetamine, and inhalants showed more significant influence than nicotine. Our study findings revealed that the clinical features of drug dependence could be evaluated by using the new clinical evaluation form. Further study is required to clarify the clinical features of nicotine dependence compared with those of other drugs of dependence.
15546025	Radio-protective effect of vitamin E on spermatogenesis in mice exposed to gamma-irradiation: a flow cytometric study.	AIM: To investigate the effect of vitamin E on the radioprotection of spermatogenesis and chromatin condensation of spermatozoa during passage through the epididymis in mice exposed to irradiation. METHODS: Adult outbred male ICR mice were orally administered natural vitamin E (VE, D-alpha-tocopheryl acetate) at 400 IU/kg for 7 days before exposure to 1 Gy of gamma-irradiation. The animals were sacrificed at day 1, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 and 70 post-irradiation (IR) and the percentage of testicular germ cells and epididymal sperm chromatin condensation was analyzed using flow cytometry. RESULTS: Serum D-alpha-tocopheryl acetate levels were 47.4+/-3.2 microg/dL in the treated group, yet it could not be detected in the control group. The testicular weight of irradiated mice pretreated with VE+IR was significantly (P&lt;0.05) higher than that of those without VE treatment (IR) at day 14 and 21 post-irradiation. The percentage of primary spermatocytes (4C) in the VE+IR group was comparable to the controls but significantly (P&lt;0.05) higher than those in the IR group from day 7 to 35 post-irradiation. The percentage of round spermatids (1C) in the VE+IR group was also significantly (P&lt;0.05) higher than those in the IR group at day 28 post-irradiation. The primary spermatocytes : spermatogonia ratio in the IR group was significantly (P&lt;0.05) declined at day 7 to 35 post-irradiation when compared to the VE+IR and control groups. The round spermatid : spermatogonia ratio in the VE+IR group was significantly (P&lt;0.05) higher than that of the IR group at day 14 and 28 post-irradiation. The chromatin condensation of epididymal spermatozoa measured by propidium iodide uptake was not affected by 1 Gy of gamma-irradiation. CONCLUSION: The administration of VE prior to irradiation protects spermatogenic cells from radiation.
15548145	Births and perinatal health of infants among women who have had silicone breast implantation in Finland, 1967-2000.	BACKGROUND: Potential problems with breast implants have been widely discussed, but few data exist on the childbearing and offspring of women with implants. The purpose of this study was to investigate the occurrence and conditions of pregnancies of women who have had cosmetic breast implantation (exposed women), and the health of their newborns. METHODS: Women who had breast implants for cosmetic reasons in the period 1967-1999 (n = 2236) were identified from hospital surgical records. The births of the exposed women were identified through record linkage to the Population Register. The perinatal health of the infants was studied by the data in the Medical Birth Register in 1987-1999. For each birth to an exposed woman, 20 control mothers who gave birth in the same year were chosen randomly from the Medical Birth Register. Differences in mothers' background characteristics were adjusted by logistic regression. RESULTS: The women had received their first cosmetic breast implants at young ages (mean 31 years). By year 2000, 26% of the exposed women had one or more children. Half of these women had not had a liveborn child before getting implants. Of the 1661 exposed women who had not (yet) had children, 32% were less than 35 years of age at the end of follow-up. The women had children at a mean of 4.7 years after the implants. Some of the perinatal health indicators suggested poorer health and others better health for infants of exposed women, but only transfers to other hospitals and lower birthweight among infants of exposed multipara were statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: The study shows that pregnancy and infant health are relevant considerations with regard to breast implants; further studies on implants are needed.
15549149	Clinical characteristics of patients undergoing surgical resection of benign liver tumors in Taiwan, an endemic area for hepatocellular carcinoma.	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The management of benign liver tumors in Asian countries endemic for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) may be different from that in western countries with a lower prevalence of HCC. The aim of this study was to investigate the characteristics of surgically treated benign liver tumors in a liver disease treatment center in Taiwan, an area prevalent for HCC. METHODS: Between January 1991 and June 2001, 57 patients with benign liver tumors underwent liver resection. The demographic data, radiologic diagnosis, and postoperative pathologic diagnosis of these patients were reviewed and analyzed. RESULTS: Cavernous hemangioma (n = 15), focal nodular hyperplasia (n = 12), and macro-regenerative nodule (n = 9) were the most frequent pathologic diagnoses of the resected liver tumors. HCC was the most frequent preoperative radiologic diagnosis (27/57, 47%). Four of the 9 macro-regenerative nodules had associated focal dysplastic change. All of the patients with macro-regenerative nodule had a preoperative imaging diagnosis of HCC. Only 1 liver biopsy was performed among the 57 patients. CONCLUSIONS: HCC was the most frequent preoperative radiologic diagnosis for benign liver tumors undergoing liver resection at a tertiary referral center in Taiwan. Macro-regenerative nodule of liver was commonly misdiagnosed as HCC by radiology alone in this study. In order to avoid unnecessary surgery, aspiration cytology should be performed for all patients without elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein and typical radiologic features of HCC. Patients with macro-regenerative nodules without atypical hepatocytes can be followed safely without surgical intervention, but when a macro-regenerative nodule with dysplastic change is found, it should be treated either by surgical resection or local ablation.
15549256	Severe cartilage damage by broken poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) interference screw after ACL reconstruction.	Poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) bioabsorbable interference screws are widely used for fixation of tendon to bone and bone to bone in anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) reconstructions. Complications are rare. To our knowledge this is the first report of severe chondral damage caused by late breakage of the screw. Breakage of bioscrews has only been published in cases with tendon to bone fixation.
15554528	[Overweight and obesity]	Being over-weight and obesity are conditions which are becoming ever more common and this trend presents a series of social and psychological problems, apart from the well known health risks such as hypertension, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, orthopaedic problems, cancers of the endometrium and breast etc. The prevention and control of excess weight and obesity is largely based on adopting a healthy lifestyle and above all on diet and exercise. These ideas are also included in the Health Plan for 2002-2004, and are among the ten most important strategic objectives for promoting healthy living, disease prevention and informing the public on health matters.
15554588	[Quantitative spectral evaluation of vocal hypofunction]	The purpose of this study was to explore the interaction between voice asthenicity and the acoustic prediction of vocal hypofunction. One hundred and seven phonatory samples of Reinke's edema were categorized by listeners using GRBAS scale. Seven frequency and time domain parameters were used to predict perceptual severity of asthenicity. Logistic regresion analysis showed that a useful measure for the prediction of asthenicity was the loss of harmonic components in the middle and upper portion of the spectrum. A spectral classification of vocal hypofunction is proposed.
15554659	Representation of the molecular topology of cyclical structures by means of cycle graphs. 3. Hierarchical model of screening of chemical databases.	The increase in the size and complexity of chemical databases necessitates the proposal and development of efficient methods of classification and recovery of information, which supposes proposal of a model of classification of database records and the use of a compatible model of screening for inspection of clusters and recovery of the molecules that satisfy the search criterion. The cycle graphs model based on consideration of all the cycles and chains (and equivalent cycles and chains) present in the molecular structure has been proven appropriate for classification of chemical databases, giving rise to a generation of different classification levels depending on the structural elements (cycles and chains) that are considered. In this paper we propose a screening model, compatible with the cycle graphs model, based on a hierarchy of levels of abstraction. The set of molecules that satisfies a screening model (or selection criterion) diminishes as we advance in the hierarchy of levels of the model, which allows filtering of records and, therefore, an increase in the efficiency of the screening process. In the following work of this series we describe and validate the screening tool developed.
15575448	Color stability of resin cements after accelerated aging.	PURPOSE: To study the color stability of different resin cements after accelerated aging. METHODS: The color stability of a self-adhesive resin cement (Unicem), one resin-based composite cement (Variolink II), one compomer cement (Principle) and one hybrid ionomer cement (FujiCEM) was studied. Two curing modes of Unicem (self-cured and dual-cured) and Variolink II (light-cured and dual-cured) were also tested. Specimen disks (n = 5) were prepared with a polytetrafluoroethylene split mold and subjected to accelerated aging for 150, 300 and 450 kJ/m2. Color (CIELAB system) was measured before and after each of the three aging cycles on a reflection spectrophotometer. deltaE*, deltaL*, deltaC* and deltaH* were calculated and analyzed by ANOVA. RESULTS: The largest color change occurred during the first 150 kJ/m2 aging cycle, where deltaE* values ranged from 5.6 to 20.5 with Principle showing the least color change and FujiCEM the most. The color changes of all the tested materials were perceptible. The greatest changes were recorded for deltaL* and/or deltaC*. All specimens became significantly rougher and showed evidence of cracking and degradation after aging except Variolink II.
15576857	Structural modeling of dynamic changes in memory and brain structure using longitudinal data from the normative aging study.	This is an application of new longitudinal structural equation modeling techniques to time-dependent associations of memory and brain structure measurements. There were 225 participants aged 30-80 years at baseline who were measured again after a 7-year interval on both the lateral ventricular size and Wechsler memory score. Multiple regression analyses show nonlinear associations with age but no relationships among longitudinal changes. Mixed-effects latent growth curve analyses and analyses based on latent difference scores indicate that longitudinal changes in both variables are reasonably well described by an exponential or dual change model. Bivariate dynamic structural equation modeling analyses indicate age-lagged changes operate in a coupled-over-time fashion, with the brain measure (lateral ventricular size) as a leading indicator in time of memory (Wechsler memory score) declines.
15578348	Posterior endoscopic lumbar discectomy using a thoracoport as a tubular retractor.	OBJECTIVE: To make lumbar discectomy simple and feasible, we developed an endoscopic surgical technique that uses a Thoracoport as a tubular retractor. SURGICAL TECHNIQUE: The patient was placed in a 60-degree forwardly inclined lateral position with the side of the lesion on the top. After radiological confirmation of the index level, a Thoracoport was inserted through a 2-cm paramedian transverse skin incision. A 0-degree rod lens endoscope was mounted to a scope holder and placed into the retractor for magnification and illumination. Laminotomy was performed with a high-speed drill to reach the insertion of the yellow ligament to the upper lamina. A 2-mm undercutting of the upper facet was performed with a punch to expose the lateral edge of the nerve root. Surgical instruments were inserted next to the endoscope for manipulation. The herniated disc was identified and removed with pituitary rongeurs as in a standard microdiscectomy. With this technique, a sufficient amount of bone is resected to expose the disc lateral to the nerve root; hemostasis is easily achieved and the incidence of nerve root injury is reduced. CONCLUSION: We have successfully performed an endoscopic lumbar discectomy in 20 patients by using a Thoracoport as a tubular retractor. No specially designed instruments were required. This technique was a safe and effective minimally invasive approach to treating lumbar disc disease according to our preliminary experience.
15579345	Ability of veterinary pathologists to diagnose classical swine fever from clinical signs and gross pathological findings.	Clinical signs recorded in a classical swine fever (CSF)-suspect situation and the results of the subsequent post-mortem examination (PME) from swine submitted to post-mortem during the 1997-1998 CSF epidemic in the Netherlands, were presented in an experiment as anonymous cases (without knowledge of the actual infection status of the submission) to five veterinary pathologists for their judgment: CSF-suspect or non-suspect. It was presented to them in two hypothetical situations: country was free of CSF for 5 years and CSF was detected in the country 2 weeks ago. Subsequently, their judgment was compared to the gold standard (infection status of the submission on the basis of an immunofluoresence assay on tissue samples) and the sensitivity (Se) and specificity (Sp) of clinical diagnosis was estimated. Furthermore, intra- and inter-pathologist agreement on pathological diagnosis was measured. Adding information on clinical signs to information on PME resulted in a significant increase in median Se and a significant decrease in median Sp for a clinical judgment by pathologists. Also, median Se was significantly higher-and Sp significantly lower-for a clinical judgment by pathologists in a situation in which CSF was detected 2 weeks ago in the country compared to the situation in which the country had been free of CSF for 5 years. Apparently, the internal threshold of pathologists is severely adjusted depending on the actual disease situation in a country. Intra-rater agreement ranged from fair to almost perfect for a clinical diagnosis on the basis of PME. There was considerable variation between pathologists, especially if clinical diagnosis was based on the combined information on PME and clinical signs observed in the herd. Inter-rater agreement was substantial for the diagnosis based on information on PME. Inter-rater agreement was considerably lower for the diagnosis based on the combined information on PME and clinical signs observed in the herd.
15581741	The impact of early repeated pain experiences on stress responsiveness and emotionality at maturity in rats.	The intensive care necessary for premature newborns is characterized by multiple procedures, many of which are painful. Given emerging evidence that such early pain during this time of high brain plasticity may affect long-term neurodevelopmental and social-emotional functioning, this study explored the impact of early repeated pain on emotionality and stress responsivity at maturity. From birth through postnatal day 7, Fischer 344 pups underwent either paw needle prick every day versus every other day or daily paw touch, or were left unperturbed. Each paw received the designated perturbation once per day. At maturity, some animals underwent emotionality testing: either a 4-day series of open field exposures or a single elevated plus-maze (EPM) exposure. The paw prick groups exhibited less open field habituation and occupied the EPM open arms more. Two weeks later, all animals were either subjected to forced swim or not. At 1h post-swim, animals underwent either blood withdrawal for plasma corticosterone (CS) levels and ex vivo natural killer cell activity (NKCA) or were injected intravenously with radiolabeled NK-sensitive syngeneic MADB106 tumor cells and assessed for lung tumor retention. Sex was a major factor in the manifestation of perturbation-related differences in the biologic outcomes. Whereas postnatal pain differentially affected baseline tumor retention between males and females, only males exhibited perturbation-related differences in swim stress-induced increases in tumor retention and CS. Finally, male-female differences were evident in CS, NKCA, and tumor responses to swim stress. These findings suggest that early pain affects neurodevelopmental function in the mature organism; however, these relationships are complicated by sex differences, the postnatal pain schedule, and the outcome measured.
15584011	Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry of organic-inorganic materials: identification and gas-phase reactivity of functionalized octahedral rhenium(III) clusters.	Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry was used for the analysis of functionalized rhenium clusters such as [Re6Se8(o-Me2TTFPPh2)6]2+ (1), {Re6Se8[(o-Me2TTF)2PPh]6}2+ (2) and [Re6Se8(MePPh2)6]2+ (3). The high-resolution mass spectra of the intact clusters, performed in dichloromethane, confirm the identification of the compounds by comparison with the theoretical isotopic distributions. Low-resolution full-scan mass spectra recorded at increasing desolvation cone voltage values allow the study of the intrinsic reactivity of ionic species. The survival yield curves illustrating the bimolecular reactivity of 1 and 2 suggest that a bisdimethyltetrathiafulvalene(phenyl)phosphine ligand increases the stability of the functionalized ML6(2+) cluster 2. In the case of the 3, instead of loss of a neutral ligand, ligand exchange is observed either with traces of water present in dichloromethane or with acetonitrile used as solvent.
15584593	[The diurnal blood pressure and the EchoCG parameters of the left ventricle in patients with diabetic nephropathy]	The purpose of the study was to examine the geometry of the left ventricle (LV) in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) in relation to the 24-hour profile of blood pressure (BP) and urinary albumin excretion. The study covered 60 patients with type 1 DM and normal creatinine clearance, including 20 patients with normal albuminuria, 23 with microalbuminuria, and 17 with proteinuria. 24-hour BP monitoring was performed oscillometrically; myocardial structural parameters were studied by echoCG. LV hypertrophy (LVH) was found in 1 patient with normal albuminuria and in 8 with proteinuria (5, 30.4, and 47%, respectively; chi2 = 9.3; p = 0.09). The frequency of concentric and eccentric types of LVH was equal. In patients with a lower nocturnal BP decrease, the LV myocardial mass index (LVMMI) and relative posterior wall thickness (RPWT) were higher than those in other patients (LVMMI, 120.8 +/- 24.6 and 95.0 +/- 23.1 g/m2, respectively; p &lt; 0.001; RPWT, 0.35 +/- 0.06 and 0.31 +/- 0.06, respectively, p = 0.013). Multifactorial stepwise regression analysis has indicated that age, male sex, and proneinuria directly affected LVMMI (R2 = 0.70; p &lt; 0.001). Diastolic BP, autonomic neuropathy, and hemoglobin levels were found to be independent predictors of RPWT (R2 = 0.70; p &lt; 0.009). The findings suggest that there is a close relationship between diabetic neuropathy and LV remodeling in patients with type 1 DM. This relationship may be operative via factors, such as arterial hypertension, altered diurnal BP profile, autonomic neuropathy, and anemia.
15585461	African American children's reports of depressed mood, hopelessness, and suicidal ideation and later suicide attempts.	This study attempted to assess whether family demographic characteristics and child aggressive behavior are equal to or better than child self-reported depressive symptoms in predicting suicidal behavior. Participants were a community population of African Americans first recruited at age 6 and followed periodically through age 19-20. Measures included child self-reports of depressed mood, hopelessness, and suicidal ideation, teacher reported child aggression in grades 4-6, 6 th grade caregiver report of family demographic characteristics, and the participants' report at age 19-20 of suicide attempts. Depressed mood proved the most consistent predictor of adolescent/young adult attempts in our logistic regression analyses of the data from the population as a whole and among females. The relationship between depressed mood and suicide attempts in males was in the expected direction, but was not statistically significant. Teacher-reported youth aggressive behavior did prove to be a significant predictor of attempts in 4 th and 5 th grade for the population as a whole, but not in our analyses by gender. The relationships between family demographic characteristics and attempts failed to reach statistical significance, but were, generally, in the expected direction. The study revealed that African American children's self-reports of depressed mood as early as grade 4 may prove useful in predicting adolescent/young adult suicide attempts, particularly among females. Neither family demographics nor teacher-reported child aggressive behavior proved equal to child self-reported depressive symptoms in predicting later suicide attempts.
15587186	[Anaesthetic management for insertion of the Montgomery T-tube in a patient with subglottic stenosis]	We report a patient with subglottic stenosis who required insertion of the Montgomery T-tube. During the operation, we could keep stable anaesthesia and adequate ventilation under general anaesthesia using continuous intravenous infusion of propofol with laryngeal mask airway (LMA).
15592916	Intravenous contrast-enhanced computed tomography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis.	This study evaluated the usefulness of routine, nonfocused intravenous contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) in diagnosing acute appendicitis. Also evaluated was the diagnostic value of several findings that were clinically associated with acute appendicitis. Although a number of studies have shown various techniques using CT to be accurate in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis, few studies have focused on CT with using only intravenous contrast material. Computed tomography scan criteria for acute appendicitis have been established chiefly on the basis of appendiceal findings. We, on the other hand, have often observed the following associated conditions during appendectomy: ascites, paresis of the intestine, or thickening of adjacent tissues. In this study, we reviewed the intravenous contrast-enhanced CT scans of 78 patients who had been diagnosed as having acute appendicitis and had subsequently undergone surgery. We also compared the CT scans with patients' surgical and histological findings. As a way of evaluating clinical ancillary signs, we identified and analyzed individual CT findings that included abnormal appendix, calcified appendicolith, ascites, dilated intestine, and cecal wall thickening. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of intravenous contrast-enhanced CT in surgical cases were found to be 91.9%, 87.5%, and 91.0%, respectively. Individual findings except for abnormal appendix were not significantly common among patients who had acute appendicitis. However, more positive findings were observed in patients who had appendicitis than in those who had normal appendixes. Intravenous contrast-enhanced CT scan is a useful technique in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. The plurality of ancillary signs in CT scans also appears to be a helpful indicator in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis.
15600169	[The status of chymeric cells in human to pig spleen transplantation model]	OBJECTIVE: To establish a human to pig xenotransplantation GVHD model to simulate the human anti pig grafts immunoreaction in vivo. METHODS: The Chinese Neijiang pigs were immunosuppressed by CTX followed by the transplant of human spleen slices into pig's peritoneal cavity. We tested the routine items of the pigs' peripheral blood regularly, monitored the chimeric level by FCM, and examined the cytotoxicities of both human anti pig and pig anti human by CML. RESULT: The pigs all survived during the experimental period. The PBWBC decreased by 85% after 4 days of giving CTX. The chimeric peaks appeared on day 2 and day 14 after transplant. The cytotoxicity of human anti pig was always less than that of pig anti human, although it increased significantly after 2 weeks of transplant. CONCLUSION: There might be a dynamic changeable balance of HVG, microchimerism, and GVH due to the reaction between the chimeric human cells and the pig cells in the human to pig spleen xenotransplantation model.
15601401	Everybody's business.	The provision of specialist-level care for patients with chronic kidney disease in rural and remote areas is a significant challenge. There are well-recognized barriers to care in these areas but in addition there is a widely held view that the responsibility for chronic kidney disease falls to nephrologists, despite the lack of nephrologists in remote regions and the high burden of disease. This article describes how in Central Australia specialists and remote-based primary carers have adapted their usual roles and found new ways of working together to provide high-quality specialist-level care for remote chronic kidney disease patients. We are evolving a model where chronic kidney disease is no longer nephrologists' business but is everybody's business, with primary carers providing much of the routine specialist-level care.
15604006	Quantitative assessment of tension in wires of fine-wire external fixators.	Fine-wire fixators are widely used in fracture management. Stable fixation requires the wires maintaining tension throughout the treatment. Clinical experience indicates that wire site complications relate to wire tension. However, there lacks a method to assess wire tension quantitatively in the clinic. The objective of this study was to develop a quantitative assessment method for in situ wire tension and to investigate the factors that influence the assessment. An apparatus was developed based on a linear variable differential transformer (LVDT) displacement transducer that measured the deflection of the testing wire with respect to a parallel reference wire when a constant transverse force of 30N was applied to the testing wire. The wire deflection measured was correlated with the wire tension measured by the force transducer. The experiment was performed under different conditions to assess the effect of bone-clamp distance, reference wire tension, number of wires, and fracture stiffness. The results showed that there was a significant and negative correlation between wire tension and deflection and the bone-clamp distance was the most important factor that affected the wire tension-deflection relationship. The assessment method makes it possible to investigate the relationship between wire tension and wire site complications in the clinic.
15605995	June 2004: a male in his late 60s with recurrent extracerebral tumor.	June 2004: Over the past year, this man in late-60s had complained about progressive weakness of concentration and memory disturbances, associated with word finding difficulties. MRI examination revealed an extra-axial, parasagittal tumor 3 cm in diameter located in the left frontoparietal region. Five years ago, a meningioma in the same region, with radiographic appearance comparable to the present tumor had been totally removed. The histological picture of the current tumor was dominated by sheets of large rounded pleomorphic tumor cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm and eccentric nuclei (rhabdoid cells). Cytoplasmic inclusions were frequent; occasionally,multinucleatedtumorcellswereseen. Mitoticfigures were absent and the MIB was 3%. Meningothelial lobules were scarce, and regions with fibroblastic appearance were absent. There were no psammoma bodies, necrosis or brain invasion. Moderate immunoreactivity for EMA was found. Additionally, strong cytoplasmic immunoreaction for vimentin within the rhabdoid cells was observed. Review of the previous material showed small islets of rhabdoid cells. Rhabdoid meningioma is an uncommon meningioma variant. It has been suggested that rhabdoid meningiomas are highly aggressive tumors (WHO grade III)and that the rhabdoid phenotype represents a marker of malignant transformation in meningiomas. Histologically, rhabdoid meningiomas usually exhibit signs of anaplasia, a high mitotic activity, and a markedly increased MIB-1 labeling index. Extracranial metastases may occur in the course of the disease. However, not all rhabdoid tumors appear to have anaplastic features (as this case illustrates). Another interesting feature of rhabdoid meningiomas is that in a significant number of cases, the rhabdoid cells appear only at the time of recurrence. Alternatively, as seen in this case, the rhabdoid cells may be already present in the primary meningioma, but not as the predominating histological feature.
15607679	Successful treatment of Fusarium proliferatum pneumonia with posaconazole in a lung transplant recipient.	A 62-year-old lung transplant recipient had Fusarium proliferatum pneumonia during itraconazole prophylaxis. Severe dyspnea and emphysema ensued, requiring supplemental oxygen therapy. Therapeutic options for this patient were limited; renal insufficiency and cyclosporine use precluded amphotericin B therapy, and susceptibility testing indicated that itraconazole and fluconazole had poor activity against F proliferatum. Treatment with posaconazole, a new triazole in clinical development for the prophylaxis and treatment of fungal infection, resulted in rapid clinical improvement and successful eradication of F proliferatum. Posaconazole may provide effective treatment for difficult-to-treat Fusarium infections.
15608030	Effects of two types of hormonal contraception--oral versus intravaginal--on the sexual life of women and their partners.	BACKGROUND: Data relating to the influence of hormonal contraception on sexual life are conflicting and mostly they refer to oral contraceptives. In this randomized, controlled, prospective study we compared the effect of an intravaginal hormonal contraceptive with the effect of a combined oral contraceptive on sexual function. METHODS: Fifty-one healthy women with a permanent partner and an active sexual life were randomly divided in two groups according to a computer-generated randomization list: 26 women (group A) used an intravaginal contraceptive releasing 120 microg/day of etonogestrel and 15 microg/day of ethinylestradiol (EE) and 25 women (group B) used an oral contraceptive containing 20 microg di EE and 150 microg of desogestrel. Twenty-five women participated in the study as control group (group C). A specific questionnaire was completed by the patients and their partners at the start of the study and after cycles 3 and 6 of contraceptive use. RESULTS: Within 3 months of contraceptive use, women from both groups A and B reported a global improvement in sexual function. A statistically significant increase in sexual fantasy was reported only by patients of group A. Whereas partners of the women in both groups A and B reported an improvement in sexual function after 3 months of contraceptive intake, only patients' partners of group A reported a significant increase in sexual interest, complicity and sexual fantasy. CONCLUSIONS: Both hormonal contraceptives tested were seen to have a positive effect on some aspects of sexual function. The intravaginal contraceptive ring seems to exert a further positive effect on the psychological aspect of both women and their partners, which is evident from an improved complicity and sexual satisfaction.
15615277	[Cannabis use and untreated HIV-infection: unknown risk factors for premature peripheral artery disease]	A 32-year-old woman presented with a painful leg and a gangrenous big toe. Her medical history included HIV-infection that had remained untreated for 8 years. In addition, she had smoked about 10 cannabis-cigarettes daily during the previous 15 years. Physical examination and angiography confirmed the presence of severe peripheral artery disease in the left lower leg. She received a femorodistal bypass graft but the gangrene was progressive, ultimately necessitating a lower leg amputation. Histopathological examination revealed intimal fibrosis and thrombosis with recanalisation in combination with fragmentation of the internal elastic membrane. Peripheral artery disease is often associated with lower extremity ischaemia, mostly affecting elderly patients and almost always caused by atherosclerosis. When ischaemic symptoms manifest themselves in young individuals (&lt;40 years), rare causes of obliterative arterial disease, such as inflammation or post-traumatic vascular injury, must be excluded. Use of cannabis and untreated HIV infection are both relatively unknown risk factors for the onset of premature non-atherosclerotic arterial disease. Stopping the smoking of cannabis appears to have a favourable effect on the ischaemic symptoms. Whether treatment of HIV-infection can affect the course of premature peripheral vascular disease is unknown. When deciding whether or not to give antiviral therapy, care providers should also consider the increased cardiovascular mortality rates associated with these treatment regimens. In the case described, the HIV-infection was considered the most likely cause of the peripheral artery disease, based on all the histopathological findings.
15618841	Palpable epigastric liver as a physical sign of cirrhosis: a prospective study.	OBJECTIVE: Large numbers of patients present with abnormal liver function tests, but only a minority have significant liver disease. Physical examination may help in identifying patients with significant liver disease and in selecting patients who may require liver biopsy. Over a number of years we noted that a palpable liver in the epigastrium was common in patients with cirrhosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate this clinical sign in a cohort of patients undergoing liver biopsy. METHODS: We prospectively studied 138 consecutive patients undergoing liver biopsy in a university teaching hospital. The main outcome measure was liver fibrosis measured using the standard METAVIR scoring system. RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients had no fibrosis on biopsy, 11 patients had grade 1, eight patients had grade 2, 14 patients had grade 3 and 42 patients had grade 4 (cirrhosis). Palpable epigastric liver had a sensitivity of 86% and a specificity of 67% for the diagnosis of cirrhosis in this cohort. CONCLUSION: We suggest that a palpable liver in the epigastrium is a useful physical sign of cirrhosis in clinical practice.
15619294	The membrane proteome of Halobacterium salinarum.	The identification of 114 integral membrane proteins from Halobacterium salinarum was achieved using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometric (LC/MS/MS) techniques, representing 20% of the predicted alpha-helical transmembrane proteins of the genome. For this experiment, a membrane preparation with only minor contamination by soluble proteins was prepared. From this membrane preparation a number of peripheral membrane proteins were identified by the classical two dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) approach, but identification of integral membrane proteins largely failed with only a very few being identified. By use of a fluorescently labeled membrane preparation, we document that this is caused by an irreversible precipitation of the membrane proteins upon isoelectric focusing (IEF). Attempts to overcome this problem by using alternative IEF methods and IEF strip solubilisation techniques were not successful, and we conclude that the classical 2-DE approach is not suited for the identification of integral membrane proteins. Computational analysis showed that the identification of integral membrane proteins is further complicated by the generation of tryptic peptides, which are unfavorable for matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometric peptide mass fingerprint analysis. Together with the result from the analysis of the cytosolic proteome (see preceding paper), we could identify 34% (943) of all gene products in H. salinarum which can be theoretically expressed. This is a cautious estimate as very stringent criteria were applied for identification. These results are available under www.halolex.mpg.de.
15620233	On raising the international dissemination of German research: Does changing publication language to English attract foreign authors to publish in a German basic psychology research journal?	It has been proposed that German basic psychology journals should change publication language to English in order to facilitate access to research from German-speaking countries. However, to truly increase the dissemination of German research, it seems crucial to progress towards an internationalization of authors and readers. We applied bibliometric analysis to investigate the impact of the transition to English on the rate of foreign authors publishing in Zeitschrift fr Experimentelle Psychologie/Experimental Psychology, as well as possible associated changes in citation patterns. There was an increase in the rate of articles published by foreign authors from 14.6 and 8.7 per cent, respectively, for the last biannual periods as German-language journal, to 52.7 per cent in the first biannual period as English-language journal. Regarding citations patterns, the clearest changes emerged for domestic authors. The results illustrate possible consequences of a transition to English as publication language, and reveal that Experimental Psychology has successfully established certain prerequisites for an increase of the international dissemination of German psychology research.
15624490	[A questionnaire survey for TURP hospitalization by clinical path]	PURPOSE: We conducted a questionnaire survey to elucidate the rating of the patients who underwent transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) and were managed by a common clinical path during hospitalization. PATIENTS AND METHODS: At the day of discharge from seven hospitals in Japan, the questionnaires were handed to 298 patients who underwent TURP in 2002. In the path, it was determined that the patients should be admitted one day before surgery and discharged on the seventh postoperative day. RESULTS: The questionnaires were returned by 240 (80.5%) patients. Of the 212 patients answering a question regarding the desirable preoperative hospital stay, 58 (27.4%), 85 (40.1%) and 46 (21.7%) considered 1, 2 and 3 days as a desirable preoperative stay, respectively. Of the 206 answering a question about the desirable postoperative hospital stay, 54 (26.2%), 28 (13.6%) and 60 (29.1%) considered 7, 8 and 9-10 days as a desirable postoperative hospital stay, respectively. Of the 240 patients, 229 (95.4%) received the path for the patients, 234 (97.5%) understood the treatment methods well and 229 (95.4%) understood the schedule during hospitalization well. Two hundred thirty-six (98.3%) and 218 (90.8%) patients answered that as scheduled, they started to have meals and started to walk, respectively. Continuous drip infusion was terminated in 219 (91.3%) as scheduled, and indwelling catheters were removed in 215 (89.6%) as scheduled. CONCLUSIONS: This questionnaire survey elucidated that approximately 70% of the patients who underwent TURP wanted to stay 1 or 2 days before surgery and 7 to 10 days after surgery. We consider it very important that patients understand well the treatment methods, complications, schedules during hospitalization and criteria for discharge when they are managed using the clinical path, so they will accept better a length of hospital stay that is shorter than that which they had desired.
15625800	[Profiles of people who return unused medicine to pharmacies in Puy-de-Dme, and their motivations for doing so]	An unused drug (U.D.) is described as a drug which is purchased, whether according to a prescription or not, but which is not taken. In the past few years, French people have acquired the habit of returning U.D.s to pharmacies. Nevertheless, few studies have been performed to define their typical features and the motivations of these individuals. A descriptive study was carried out in 1/5 of the pharmacies in Puy de Dme (France) over three 1 week periods between February and June 1998. 377 people (that is, 82% of those who bring U.D. back to the pharmacies) accepted to participate in this study. The main results are as follows: 1. the U.D. are primarily brought back by women (of all ages); 2. these women mainly return U.D. from the family medicine cabinet; 3. the donations result essentially from &quot;the force of habit&quot;, &quot;cleaning out the family medicine cabinet&quot; and also, although in lesser proportion, for &quot;humanitarian reasons&quot;. This behaviour is contradictory with the communication messages of Cyclamed, the official French association whose mission is to collect drug waste and unused drugs in order to preserve the environment and to promote energy development and valorisation.
15626424	Impact of genetic selection on management of boar replacement.	Boars in an artificial insemination centre have been selected for their superior genetic potential, with 'superior' being defined as having traits the customer wants transmitted to his herd. The ability to meet the customers' needs depends on the heritability of the trait, the geneticist's success in devising a selection scheme for the trait in balance with other economically important traits, and the boar's ability to produce sperm that can fertilise oocytes. Genetic evaluation research over the past 20 years has greatly increased the number of traits for which a boar can be selected: currently in the Canadian national program, these include age at 100 kg, backfat at 100 kg, feed efficiency, lean yield and litter size. In the near future, traits that are very likely to be added to this selection list include piglet survival, marbling, loin eye area and structure traits. In Canada, sires are ranked on two estimated breeding value (EBV) indices; one, focused on development of terminal sire lines, is based on the growth and yield traits and another, primarily focused on maternal line development, de-emphasises these traits and incorporates litter size. Boars that are in Canadian AI centres because of their excellent growth traits are typically in the top 5-10% of the national population for terminal sire line index, but they may be only average or substandard for litter size. Conversely, boars selected to be in the top 5-10% for conveying such reproductive traits as litter size may only be in the top 33% for growth traits. The more offspring from a superior boar in either of these indices, the faster the population average for the trait improves. The original sire gets knocked out of the elite group, is culled and replaced by a higher ranked young boar from the now improved general population. Although genetic superiority should govern an AI centre's selection and culling of boars, decision-making in real life is seldom that simple. Selection criteria may be contradictory as above, or a boar with truly superior traits may be excluded because a newly-developed molecular genetics test determines he carries an undesirable gene such as PSS, RN or others being developed. Selection for terminal sire or maternal line traits can ignore important practical factors that affect an AI centre--boars with superior genetics may not produce good semen because skeletal or penile problems prevent ejaculation, or because sperm production is poor due to a genetic flaw, disease, or some other cause. Interestingly, selection pressure for one trait may inadvertently select for a trait that is linked but whose linkage is unrecognised, and such unintentionally selected genes could benefit, harm, or have no effect on production traits. An AI centre serving a variety of customers must select boars in anticipation of their customers' needs (including new, foreign and niche markets). A centre should also review its genetic evaluation results and progeny records, both to critique its own selection success and to try to detect unexpected linkages. Finally, an AI centre needs to predict its own future, selecting not just for production traits for the swine producer, but also for factors that enhance the centre's efficiency including boar conformation and temperament, and sperm quantity, quality and hardiness. Can we select for efficiency? Our colleagues in dairy cattle AI evaluate bull performance--should the swine industry consider evaluation of male fertility traits?
15628246	[Angiographic imaging of supernumerary kidney arteries by nonselective angiography]	In this paper was examined the occurrence frequently more of one kidney artery of the aortic origin. The examinations were performed on the 213 angiograms of the kidney artery by the method of the unselective renal angiography per Seldinger, in both sexes, of the various life ages. On the analyzed angiograms was the presence of these arteries in 25.82% of cases. They were more often at the right side in 49.09%, than on the left side in 36.36%, while their both side presence was found in 14.55%. Although are these arteries more frequently in male persons, a though the sex cannot be statistically significant the parameter for the determination the frequency of their occurrence. In the relation to the backbone column the level of the exit of this arteries from the aorta is the greatest number of cases between the trunk of the first and third loins vertebra (L1-L3) and all were directed according to the medial edge of the corresponding kidney. According the place of the entrance in the kidney can be differed three types of these arteries: the artery, and upper and low polar artery. On the analyzed angiograms most often were found the hilar and lower polar artery, while the upper polar artery was present in only seven cases of the total number of the analyzed angiograms. We consider that the recognition of the supernumerary arteries of the kidney there is both anatomically and the significance in the surgical and radiological practice and their best identification achieves by the application of the angiographic radiology methods.
15628991	Influence of long term stress exposure on somatisation symptoms outcome.	Long term stress exposure results in somatisation symptoms appearance. Cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal and muscle-bone symptoms arise because of intensified activity of autonomic nervous system caused by chronic stress. The aim of the study was to examine the relationship between long term war stress exposure and appearance of somatisation. 40 students of health-care faculties in Sarajevo, of both sexes, were included in investigation and divided in two groups-somatisation and control. Somatisation group subjects (N=20) lived in B&amp;H under war conditions, from 1992-1995. Control subjects (N=20) spent the same period outside B&amp;H. For evaluation of somatisation symptoms we used SCL-90-R test. The obtained data were statistically evaluated using Student's t-test and chi2 test. Confidence level was set at p &lt; 0.05. Our results showed statistically significant difference in somatisation level between somatisation and control subjects group. Different intensity of appearance of certain symptoms in male and female was established. The score of somatisation dimension between somatisation and control group showed statistically significant level (p &lt; 0.0001). Study results confirmed correlation of chronic stress exposure (living in war environment) and somatisation symptom appearance. Individual organic systems had various level of symptom expression. The influence of sex on intensity of individual symptoms of somatisation is possible.
15630267	Effects of lactoferrin, soya germ and polyamine on 2-amino-1-methyl-6- phenylimidazo[4,5-b]-pyridine(PhIP)- induced breast carcinogenesis in rats.	The cancer-preventive effects of food-derived bovine lactoferrin(bLF), isoflavone-rich soya germ(SG), and spermidine(SPD) on mammary gland carcinogenesis induced by 2-amino-1- methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]-pyridine (PhIP), were investigated in female Sprague-Dawley(SD) rats. Two hundred and six female SD rats were divided into 8 groups. Cumulative breast cancer incidence at 43 weeks was 65.4% in the PhIP group; 80.0% and 76.0% in the 0.2% and 2.0% bLF groups, respectively; 58.3% and 20.0% in the 2% and 10% SG groups, respectively; and 80.0% and 76.9% in the 0.035% and 0.175% SPD groups, respectively. Isoflavone-rich SG significantly suppressed breast cancer, and the tumors showed fibrous or less malignant features upon histological examination.
15636742	Bacterial conjugation: a potential tool for genomic engineering.	Bacterial conjugation is a mechanism for horizontal DNA transfer with potential for universal DNA delivery. The conjugal machinery can be separated into three functional modules: the relaxosome, the coupling protein, and a type IV protein secretion system. Module interchangeability among different conjugative systems opens up the possibility of &quot;a la carte&quot; engineering of DNA delivery into virtually any cell type.
15639113	Catheter-related thrombosis in cancer patients: pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management.	Central venous catheters (CVCs) are commonly used in oncology patients. Up to 50% of CVCs are complicated by thrombosis within the catheter or the blood vessel. These thrombi are the result of local tissue damage, the catheter itself, and the thrombophilia of cancer. Frequent flushes with saline or heparin may reduce the frequency of catheter dysfunction but do not reduce the rate of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in the catheterized blood vessel. Efforts to use prophylactic heparin or warfarin to reduce catheter-related DVT have not been rewarding.
15639263	Quantitative structure-property relationships on photolysis of PCDD/Fs adsorbed to spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) needle surfaces under sunlight irradiation.	By partial least squares (PLS) regression, quantitative structure-property relationship (QSPR) models were developed for photolysis half-life (t1/2) of PCDD/Fs and PAHs sorbed to spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) needle surfaces and irradiated by sunlight. Quantum chemical descriptors computed by PM3 Hamiltonian were used predictor variables. PLS analysis for the PCDDs and PAHs respectively resulted in no correlation by our statistical methods. The cross-validated Qcum2 value for the optimal QSPR model of PCDFs is 0.722, indicating a good predictive ability for logt1/2 of PCDFs adsorbed to spruce needle surfaces. The QSPR results show that the number of chlorine atoms bonded to the parent structure and (E(LUMO)-E(HOMO))2 has a dominant effect on t1/2 values of PCDFs. Increasing the number of chlorine atoms and (E(LUMO)-E(HOMO))2 values leads to increase of logt1/2 values of PCDFs.
15645805	Ultrahigh-quality-factor silicon-on-insulator microring resonator.	The development of ultrahigh-quality-factor (Q) silicon-on-insulator (SOI) microring resonators based on silicon wire waveguides is presented. An analytical description is derived, illustrating that in addition to low propagation losses the critical coupling condition is essential for optimizing device characteristics. Propagation losses as low as 1.9 +/- 0.1 dB/cm in a curved waveguide with a bending radius of 20 microm and a Q factor as high as 139.000 +/- 6.000 are demonstrated. These are believed to be the highest values reported for a curved SOI waveguide device and for any directly structured semiconductor microring fabricated without additional melting-induced surface smoothing.
15647978	[The interesting case -- case no. 67]	BACKGROUND: Lipoma of the retropharyngeal space is a rare benign tumour often showing unspecific clinical symtoms. It can grow to an enormous extent causing total obstruction of the upper respiratory tract. Until now its etiology is unknown. With a variety of differential diagnoses, a diagnostic concept is necessary. CASE REPORT: A 41 year old male patient complained about a nondolent swelling of the neck. The radiological diagnostics showed a huge lipoma of the para- and retropharyngeal space with subtotal obstruction of the pharynx. The lipoma was removed completely via transcervical approach. CONCLUSION: Lipoma as differential diagnosis of retropharyngeal tumours always has to be considered. Surgical intervention is recommended. To prevent functional complications resulting from tumour and surgery and to get information about the extent of the lipoma, accurate radiological imaging is mandatory.
15649244	Heart rate variability: measurement and clinical utility.	Electrocardiographic RR intervals fluctuate cyclically, modulated by ventilation, baroreflexes, and other genetic and environmental factors that are mediated through the autonomic nervous system. Short term electrocardiographic recordings (5 to 15 minutes), made under controlled conditions, e.g., lying supine or standing or tilted upright can elucidate physiologic, pharmacologic, or pathologic changes in autonomic nervous system function. Long-term, usually 24-hour recordings, can be used to assess autonomic nervous responses during normal daily activities in health, disease, and in response to therapeutic interventions, e.g., exercise or drugs. RR interval variability is useful for assessing risk of cardiovascular death or arrhythmic events, especially when combined with other tests, e.g., left ventricular ejection fraction or ventricular arrhythmias.
15651631	Determination of the modulation transfer function using the edge method: influence of scattered radiation.	The edge method for measuring the modulation transfer function (MTF) has recently gained popularity due to its simplicity and appropriateness particularly for digital imaging systems. Often edge test devices made of rather thin metal sheets are used, which are semitransparent to x rays and may generate scattered radiation. The effect of this scattered radiation on the determined MTF was investigated both theoretically (assuming an ideal detector) and experimentally using a CsI-based digital detector. It was found that the MTF increases due to the scattered radiation for all spatial frequencies larger than 0 mm(-1). The theoretical model developed in this study predicts that the maximum error compared to the true detector MTF is given by S/A, where A is the attenuated fraction and S is the scattered fraction reaching the detector, relative to the incident radiation. Theoretical and experimental results are in good agreement for radiation qualities corresponding to general radiography (RQA3, RQA5, and RQA7), whereas for chest beam quality (RQA9) the experimentally observed MTF error is larger than predicted by the simple model, possibly because the energy response of the CsI-based detector differs from that of an ideal one. The theoretical MTF error reaches a value of 18% for a 0.25 mm thick lead edge of RQA9. Since the MTF enters squared into the determination of the detective quantum efficiency (DQE), an error of at least 36% in DQE may result when using this edge test device. In conclusion, the use of fully absorbing edge material is advised for MTF determination with the edge method.
15652142	Random biochemical networks: the probability of self-sustaining autocatalysis.	We determine conditions under which a random biochemical system is likely to contain a subsystem that is both autocatalytic and able to survive on some ambient 'food' source. Such systems have previously been investigated for their relevance to origin-of-life models. In this paper we extend earlier work, by finding precisely the order of catalysation required for the emergence of such self-sustaining autocatalytic networks. This answers questions raised in earlier papers, yet also allows for a more general class of models. We also show that a recently described polynomial-time algorithm for determining whether a catalytic reaction system contains an autocatalytic, self-sustaining subsystem is unlikely to adapt to allow inhibitory catalysation--in this case we show that the associated decision problem is NP-complete.
15658060	[Anatomo-clinical confrontation. Vulvar melanosis]	Vulvar melanosis is a benign disorder that may suggest a malignant melanoma. We report the case of a woman in whom partial vulvectomy was performed to eradicate the melanotic macule. The lesion corresponds to increased accumulation of melanin inside keratinocytes in the absence of any melanocytic neoplasm.
15661066	Torsion of a communicating hydrocele in a child.	Among the diseases presenting as acute scrotum, torsion of a communicating hydrocele is extremely rare. A 5-year-old boy was referred with discomfort and swelling of the left scrotum. Operative findings revealed a torsion of a communicating hydrocele. We report a case of torsion with preoperative findings of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging. We also emphasize the awareness of this disease as a differential diagnosis of the acute scrotum.
15666269	Orthopedic pitfalls in the ED: Achilles tendon rupture.	Achilles tendon rupture is a relatively uncommon occurrence in a general ED population. The history can be subtle, and physical findings may not be clear-cut. Prompt diagnosis and treatment of these injuries, however, is important to improved clinical outcome. The emergency physician needs to remain vigilant for this diagnosis to avoid this orthopedic pitfall. This review article examines the clinical presentation, diagnostic technique, and management options applicable to the emergency physician in the treatment of Achilles tendon rupture.
15669468	Apophyseal avulsion fracture of the greater trochanter after slipped capital femoral epiphysis: a case report.	A 13-year-old boy sustained an avulsion fracture of the left greater trochanter eight months after surgical stabilisation of a slipped capital femoral epiphysis on the same side. In this specific case, avulsion of the greater trochanter after slipping of the capital femoral epiphysis may have been facilitated by weakening of the trochanteric physis.
15672627	A global perspective on spinal cord injury epidemiology.	Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating condition often affecting young and healthy individuals around the world. This debilitating condition not only creates enormous physical and emotional cost to individuals but also is a significant financial burden to society at large. This review was undertaken to understand the global impact of SCI on society. We also attempted to summarize the worldwide demographics and preventative strategies for SCI in varying economic and climatic environments and to evaluate how cultural and economic differences affect the etiology of SCI. A PUBMED database search was performed in order to identify clinical epidemiological studies of SCI within the last decade. In addition, World Bank and World Health Organization websites were used to obtain demographics, economics, and health statistics of countries of interest. A total of 20 manuscripts were selected from 17 countries. We found that SCI varies in etiology, male-to-female ratios, age distributions, and complications in different countries. Nations with similar economies tend to have similar features and incidences in all the above categories. However, diverse methods of classifying SCI were found, making comparisons difficult. Based upon these findings, it is clear that the categorization and evaluation of SCI must be standardized. The authors suggest improved methods of reporting in the areas of etiology, neurological classification, and incidence of SCI so that, in the future, more useful global comprehensive studies and comparisons can be undertaken. Unified injury prevention programs should be implemented through methods involving the Internet and international organizations, targeting the different etiologies of SCI found in different countries.
15673647	Existence of staff barriers to partner violence screening and screening practices in military prenatal settings.	OBJECTIVE: To identify, from a provider's perspective, the existence of staff barriers and the frequency of partner violence screening. DESIGN: Quantitative descriptive design. SETTING: Data were collected at two United States Army Community Hospitals. PARTICIPANTS: Department of Defense physicians and family nurse practitioners that provide prenatal care completed a 26-item questionnaire. RESULTS: Military health care providers are aware of partner violence screening barriers, with the biggest perceived barriers being lack of time (80%) and lack of education (72%). Screening practices exceeded research expectation, with 93% of the providers performing partner violence screening. Seventy-four percent of participants had received partner violence education and training, with 12% having received greater than 5 hours of training. CONCLUSION: Perceived barriers to partner violence screening do exist in military prenatal settings but do not significantly affect screening practices. Most providers are screening prenatal patients for partner violence and are aware of resources available to assist victims of partner violence.
15673765	Detection of KPC carbapenem-hydrolyzing enzymes in Enterobacter spp. from Brooklyn, New York.	Enterobacter spp. are rarely resistant to carbapenems. In this report, one Enterobacter sp. isolate possessed bla(KPC-3) and two possessed bla(KPC-2). For all three strains, the imipenem MICs were dependent on the inoculum and testing method; two were reported by the clinical laboratories to be carbapenem susceptible. Improved detection methods will be necessary to identify these enzymes.
15676702	Writing to be understood: why use sentences?	Written information does not have to be flowing prose. Recent studies have shown that abandoning the prose format for alternatives such as logical trees and tabulated presentations can often improve comprehension. From our present knowledge, it seems unlikely that any one style will be universally optimal. Written information is used for many different purposes and in a wide variety of circumstances. This paper discusses some of the factors which need to be taken into account when selecting a particular way of writing to be understood.
15682806	[Two tracheal tubes inserted for endotracheal tube replacement in a patient with severe obstructive sleep apnea: a case report]	A 34-year-old obese, small-jawed and short-necked woman, had severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) with bronchial asthma. A surgical removal of a lingual tumor using a laser knife was scheduled under general anesthesia with sevoflurane. A small diameter tracheal tube for laser surgery (internal diameter (ID) of 5.5 mm) was used. The tube was inserted using bronchofiberscopy under spontaneous respiration. Extubation was designed to be performed when the patient resumed adequate spontaneous respiration and was awake. However, her ventilation deteriorated postoperatively as spontaneous breathing continued (PaO2 98 mmHg, PaCO2 88 mmHg at FIO2 1.0). This seemed to have been induced by worsened patient-ventilator synchrony and increased airway resistance due to the use of a small diameter tube. We decided to replace the tube with the one with larger diameter. An ID 7.5 mm tube was inserted with the use of fiberscope through the opening of the vocal cord while the tube for laser surgery was left in space. After confirming that the two tubes were inserted securely, the tube for laser surgery was withdrawn. The patient's ventilation improved significantly afterwards and the extubation was performed successfully. Our method for replacing a tracheal tube seemed to be effective and safe.
15686758	Factors influencing natural occurrence of fluoride-rich groundwaters: a case study in the southeastern part of the Korean Peninsula.	Factors regulating the occurrence of fluoride in groundwater were investigated using natural isotope tracers and geochemical data in the southeastern part of Korea where about 10% of the total public water-supply wells (n=422) inspected in this study had fluoride levels exceeding the drinking water limit of Korea (1.5 mg/l). The F-rich public wells are mostly distributed along the major faults, especially in the terrain of the F-rich granitic rocks. The stable isotope analysis results provide substantial information for the relative ages of groundwaters. It is revealed that the F-rich groundwaters are deeply circulating paleogroundwaters and occur along the faults due to upward flow along the fault plane. While reacting with granitic rocks for a prolonged period, the F concentrations of groundwater are continuously enriched even after the groundwater reaches an equilibrium state with respect to fluorite (CaF2) due to removal of Ca by precipitation of calcite (CaCO3). These observations reflect that rock chemistry, groundwater age, well depth, and geologic structure are the important factors controlling the occurrence of high F groundwaters. However, high F groundwaters are rarely observed in the fault zones where the associated fractures are widely developed. Isotopic signature provides an evidence for deep penetration of recently recharged groundwater into the wide fault zone, indicating that the hydrologic condition of the fault is also an important factor controlling the occurrence of high F groundwaters.
15687571	Digital breast imaging: tomosynthesis and digital subtraction mammography.	Advances in the computer technology and the introduction of new digital imaging detectors offer the potential for digital image acquisition and several new mammography techniques, such as tomosynthesis and digital subtraction mammography. Tomosynthesis is a method of obtaining tomographic images of a breast. In tomosynthesis, any number of tomographic planes may be reconstructed from a set of images obtained as the X-ray source is moved in an arc above the breast. By shifting and adding the information obtained at different source positions, any plane of the breast can be brought into a sharp focus, while structures outside this selected plane are blurred. This may lead to improved lesion detection, especially in dense breast tissue. Thus, tomosynthesis may play a role in improving breast cancer screening and lesion characterization. Digital subtraction mammography is a method of breast angiography. It is performed by obtaining a digital radiographic image before, and one or more digital radiographic images after the injection of a contrast agent such as iodine. The pre- and post-contrast images are subtracted, resulting in an image of the vascular structures in the breast. Because breast cancer lesions have increased vascularity, digital subtraction mammography may play an important role in improving lesion detection, characterizing lesions, monitoring response to therapy, and determining lesion extent.Thus, both of these new digital techniques have the potential to address the major limitation of conventional mammography, namely the difficulty in detecting cancer in radiographically dense breasts.
15691057	Three rheumatologic emergencies: a sore toe, a cough, hypertension.	Patients often present to internists with symptoms that can represent a minor illness or a rheumatologic emergency. This paper discusses the recognition and treatment of three rheumatologic emergencies: septic arthritis, alveolar hemorrhage as a complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and scleroderma renal crisis.
15692201	Prenatal diagnosis of isolated limb defects: an updated review.	Abnormalities of bone segments, either isolated or in combination with others, may affect any single bone. Given the relatively low incidence of such defects and the relevance of the clinical issues involved, it could be useful to evaluate all the diagnostic and procedural aspects that should be considered at prenatal diagnosis, when obstetricians are confronted with an event that is certainly unfamiliar to most of them: a fetus with an isolated limb defect. In fact, with comparatively infrequent abnormalities investigators often tend to neglect some diagnostic aspects that could be useful both in terms of prenatal counseling and of optimum management of the affected fetus. Therefore, a multidisciplinary approach is required that supplements ultrasound diagnostics with additional tests and examinations, even of the invasive type, depending on the complexity of the condition. This updated review may represent a useful tool to reach the stated objectives.
15697429	Reshuffling scale-free networks: from random to assortative.	To analyze the role of assortativity in networks we introduce an algorithm which produces assortative mixing to a desired degree. This degree is governed by one parameter p . Changing this parameter one can construct networks ranging from fully random (p=0) to totally assortative (p=1) . We apply the algorithm to a Barabsi-Albert scale-free network and show that the degree of assortativity is an important parameter governing the geometrical and transport properties of networks. Thus, the average path length of the network increases dramatically with the degree of assortativity. Moreover, the concentration dependences of the size of the giant component in the node percolation problem for uncorrelated and assortative networks are strongly different. The behavior of the clustering coefficient is also discussed.
15697805	Photoassociative production and trapping of ultracold KRb molecules.	We have produced ultracold heteronuclear KRb molecules by the process of photoassociation in a two-species magneto-optical trap. Following decay of the photoassociated KRb*, the molecules are detected using two-photon ionization and time-of-flight mass spectroscopy of KRb+. A portion of the metastable triplet molecules thus formed are magnetically trapped. Photoassociative spectra down to 91 cm(-1) below the K(4s)+Rb(5p(1/2)) asymptote have been obtained. We have made assignments to all eight of the attractive Hund's case (c) KRb* potential curves in this spectral region.
15709662	A meshless method for solving the EEG forward problem.	We present a numerical method to solve the quasistatic Maxwell equations and compute the electroencephalography (EEG) forward problem solution. More generally, we develop a computationally efficient method to obtain the electric potential distribution generated by a source of electric activity inside a three-dimensional body of arbitrary shape and layers of different electric conductivities. The method needs only a set of nodes on the surface and inside the head, but not a mesh connecting the nodes. This represents an advantage over traditional methods like boundary elements or finite elements since the generation of the mesh is typically computationally intensive. The performance of the proposed method is compared with the boundary element method (BEM) by numerically solving some EEG forward problems examples. For a large number of nodes and the same precision, our method has lower computational load than BEM due to a faster convergence rate and to the sparsity of the linear system to be solved.
15711070	Two breeding females within free-living groups may not always indicate polygyny: alternative subordinate female strategies in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).	The mating system of callitrichids has been reported to be monogamous, polygynous and polyandrous. In Callithrix jacchus, groups with 2 breeding females and groups with 1 breeding female have been reported. Our purpose was to evaluate the occurrence of occasional reproduction by subordinate females in free-ranging C. jacchus groups characterized as monogamous. Four groups were monitored at a field site of IBAMA-Brazil for between 20 and 72 months. We recorded the birth of 7 sets of twins to subordinate females that had never reproduced before. Sexual activities were recorded opportunistically: dominant females copulated with only the resident male, while subordinates copulated with extra-group males. We suggest these were essentially monogamous groups that occasionally had 2 reproductive females. Between-group copulations seem to be an alternative strategy used by the subordinates. Despite the costs, there would probably be benefits as a result of scanning for vacancies for reproductive positions in neighbouring groups and the establishment of ties with extra-group males that might become a reproductive partner in the future.
15714787	The lived experience of adolescents who transfer from a pediatric to an adult hemodialysis centre.	The transition experience of adolescent patients who transfer from pediatric to adult hemodialysis centres has not received attention in the pediatric nephrology literature. In order for health care professionals from both pediatric and adult hemodialysis centres to positively influence the quality of life during this transition, an understanding of the meanings adolescents attach to their transition experience must be explored. Phenomenology as a research paradigm was employed for this study. Phenomenology provides a method from which to study human experience as it is lived, including the meanings that individuals attach to the experience. This qualitative research study was designed to describe the meanings adolescents attached to their transition experience. Subsequent objectives of the study were: to identify implications for professional practice in both pediatric and adult hemodialysis centres; to positively influence the quality of life for adolescent hemodialysis patients during their transition; and to identify and define potential areas for further research related to the holistic needs of adolescent hemodialysis patients. A sample of three English-speaking adults between the ages of 18 and 22 years who were receiving hemodialysis treatments in an adult centre following transfer from a pediatric centre within one year were interviewed. The tape-recorded interviews were transcribed into verbatim text. In addition, field notes provided investigators with the supplemental information about the meaning and the context of the interview that the audiotape may have missed. The data were analyzed using a step-by-step procedure adapted from Colaizzi (1978). In the final step, the investigators integrated and synthesized the analysis into a descriptive meaning of the transition experience of adolescents who transferred from a pediatric to an adult hemodialysis centre. The findings of the study revealed a major theme of ownership that the adolescents described as being achieved in the adult hemodialysis centre through their increased knowledge of dialysis technology, through being held accountable for their dialysis care and through increased feelings of independence.
15729604	Long-term survival following concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer with concomitant brain metastases only.	We report two patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with concomitant metastases to the brain only who received chemotherapy with concurrent radiotherapy for the thoracic disease and brain disease, resulting in long-term survival. One patient was a 56-year-old woman who was diagnosed as having adenocarcinoma and showed T2N1 thoracic disease; the other patient was a 57-year-old man diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma who had T1N3 thoracic disease. Both patients demonstrated multiple metastases to the brain only. Chemotherapy, consisting of cisplatin (40 mg/m2) and docetaxel (40 mg/m2), was administered on days 1 and 8, with the drugs being given separately, and the chemotherapy was repeated every 4 weeks for up to three cycles. Whole-brain irradiation (2 Gy/day; total, 36 Gy) and thoracic irradiation (2 Gy/day; total, 60 Gy) were started on days 1 and 29, respectively. Toxicities encountered were manageable by conventional therapy. The concurrent chemoradiation therapy resulted in complete regression of the brain disease in both patients. Brain disease relapsed in the female patient, but it is being controlled by the administration of gefitinib. She has survived for 53 months since the start of treatment, without new metastatic lesions or relapse of the thoracic lesions. The male patient has survived for 37 months without new metastatic lesions or relapses. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy in which radiotherapy is applied to both the brain and thoracic lesions may be effective for patients with NSCLC with metastases to the brain only.
15736322	Richard Dobson Kt MRCS FRS (1773-1847) and the inferior status of naval medicine in the early nineteenth century: end of the fleet physicians.	In the eighteenth and early nineteenth century assistant-surgeons in the Navy possessed an inferior status compared with their equivalents in the Army, despite protestations from the Physician of the Navy, Sir William Burnett FRS; lack of promotion was a major complaint. By abolishing the title physician in the Navy, Sir Richard Dobson, FRS, surgeon to Greenwich Hospital, did much to rectify this injustice. Instead of only two promotions in 26 years, 26 medical officers were, as a result of his exertions, advanced to the rank above that of Surgeon in two years.
15738593	[Stage IV Wilms' tumour -- analysis of treatment results, according to the SIOP 93-01 protocol, at the Medical University of Gdask]	THE AIM OF THE STUDY: To evaluate the results of treatment in patients with Wilm's' tumor in stage IV at the Gdansk Medical University Centre. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Between 1993 and 2002, 44 children with nephroblastoma were treated according to SI0P 93-01 protocol, in the Department of Paediatrics, Haematology, Oncology and Endocrinology of the Medical University of Gdansk. Stage IV tumour was confirmed in 6 children: 3 boys and 3 girls. Metastases into the lungs were identified in 4 patients, into the lungs and liver in l child and into the right atrium wall in l child. RESULTS: After preoperative chemotherapy complete regression of metastases was obtained in 3 patients. Partial regression was obtained in 2 patients. In l patient there was no effect of preoperative treatment. In all patients nephroblastoma of intermediate histological risk was diagnosed. Among the 6 analysed patients with stage IV of the disease, 5 children are alive. Time of observation is from 42 to 102 months. 1 child died from treatment complications: necrotising enteritis.
15742157	Long-term effects of IFN-gamma, IL-10, and TGF-beta-modulated dendritic cells on immune response in Lewis rats.	Increasing data have shown that IFN-gamma, IL-10, and TGF-beta-modulated dendritic cells (DC) provide a promising strategy in treatment of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis through different manner. To explore the immune response status after long-term application of these cytokine-modulated-DC, Lewis rats were injected subcutaneously into naive DC and IFN-gamma, IL-10, and TGF-beta-modulated DC (i.e., IFN-gamma-DC, IL-10-DC, and TGF-beta-DC) at does of 1 x 10(6) cells/rat every month for continuous 18 months, respectively. No rats suffered from decreased vigor and activity as well as cachectic condition during 18-month observation, and no rats had body-weight loss after 18-month treatment. Exploratory laparectomy did not find any tumor in all rats. IL-10-DC and TGF-beta-DC resulted in lower nonspecific (Con A-induced) and antigen specific (ovalbumin-stimulated) spleen mononuclear cells proliferation, accompanied by lower levels of IFN-gamma, IL-10, and TNF-alpha. On the contrary, IFN-gamma-DC did not suppress cell proliferation and IFN-gamma and IL-10 production except only slightly decreased TNF-alpha levels. These results suggest that IFN-gamma-DC seems to be a more ideal candidate in the treatment of autoimmune diseases without suppressing immune response.
15742278	Effect of different splinting methods and fixation periods on root development of autotransplanted immature third molars.	PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to assess the influence of suture splinting for 1 week or rigid fixation for 4 weeks on final root length, root length increment, and mobility of autotransplanted immature third molars. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The sample consisted of 63 patients with a total of 65 transplanted immature third molars. All transplants had reached one-half (n = 29) to three-fourths (n = 36) of their expected root length. In 24 of the transplants, postoperative fixation was carried out with a rigid acid-etch composite and wire splint for 4 weeks (rigid group), and in 41 transplants, with a suture splint for 1 week (suture group). The fixation method depended on the initial stability of the transplants. All transplants were followed up clinically and radiologically for a mean period of 3.9 years. RESULTS: Transplants in the rigid group revealed a significantly lower final root length ( P = .002) and root length increment ( P = .001) than those in the suture group. The differences were found to be more pronounced in transplants at earlier developmental stages. No differences were found in transplant mobility. CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study indicate that prolonged rigid fixation of autotransplanted immature third molars has a significantly negative influence on final root length and root length increment, especially in transplants at earlier developmental stages.
15744686	Pelosi minilaparotomy hysterectomy: a non-endoscopic minimally invasive alternative to laparoscopy and laparotomy.	T he authors' technique of minilaparotomy hysterotomy is a new modality that combines the technical benefits of conventional laparotomy with the minimally invasive convalescent and cosmetic advantages of laparoscopic surgery. For patients in whom vaginal hysterectomy is considered contraindicated, this procedure offers an effective and safe minimal access alternative. This redesigned minilaparotomy approach relies on traditional open techniques and experience instrumentation that avoid the cost of expensive equipment, long learning curve, and prolonged operating time associated with laparoscopic surgery, as well as the convalescent disadvantages of a standard laparotomy.
15744921	Finding doctors in Chicago: a project to improve online physician directories. Summary of findings and recommendations.	When consumers select new doctors, they often have limited information beyond their own prior experience and the recommendations of family and friends. Physicians, when making referrals to specialists, can also find themselves armed with inadequate data. With more people turning to the Internet as a source of health care information, online physician directories are becoming important resources. Unfortunately, these sites are frequently difficult to use, not objective, or contain information that is old, inaccurate, or incomplete. The Midwest Business Group on Health worked with stakeholders to find out what consumers and physicians like and dislike about online directories. According to the study's findings, online physician directories should maximize ease of use and navigation, for example, by incorporating sophisticated search functions and interactive features; provide a wide range of content, including information on physicians' practice style; and ensure the credibility of data by regularly updating and monitoring for accuracy.
15754229	[Long-term results of the Blauth knee prosthesis--current status of hinged knee prostheses]	AIM: Currently there is widespread use of unconstrained knee arthroplasty even in severe deformities of the knee. In order to ascertain the value and future of constrained knee prostheses, we have assessed the results of the Blauth knee prosthesis and compared them with the results of unconstrained knee prostheses. METHODS: In a retrospective analysis we examined 227 Blauth knee prosthesis implantations performed between 1985 and 1997. Using endpoints of prosthesis removal, infection and aseptic loosening, the 10-year survivorship analysis was evaluated. RESULTS: The analysis shows a 10-year survivorship of 90.1 % using aseptic loosening or infection as an endpoint and 96.2 % using removal as an endpoint. CONCLUSION: The first designs of constrained knee prostheses were associated with a high failure rate, while more recent designs like the St. Georg knee prosthesis and the Blauth knee prosthesis show long-term results similar to condylar designs. Since there has been a large increase of knee endoprosthesis implantations in the last years, a constrained knee prosthesis with excellent long-term results remains a valuable implant in cases of revisions and difficult knee arthroplasty.
15757790	Toxic neuropathies.	Many substances, organic and manufactured, may induce peripheral nerve damage when exposed to them. The expected clinical phenotype is of a distal, sensory or sensorimotor polyneuropathy, often painful, with axonal characteristics on electrodiagnostic and histopathologic analysis. Treatment is limited; often, the only effective management is supportive care and avoidance from or removal of the offending toxin. Fortunately, the majority of toxic neuropathies are self-limited and improves gradually after toxin elimination.
15760738	Effects of process variables on the powder yield of spray-dried trehalose on a laboratory spray-dryer.	A systematic examination is presented of the effects of process variables on the powder yield of amorphous trehalose obtained from the Buchi Model 191 laboratory-scale mini spray dryer. By using a specially made, narrow cyclone the powder yield could be greatly improved at all process temperatures examined. Calculations of the separation efficiencies of the improved cyclone and the manufacturer's standard cyclone are given, which show that the former's higher tangential particle velocity at the radius of the exit duct is responsible for the improved performance. The powder yield increases with higher process temperatures, owing to improved droplet drying and reduced droplet/particle deposition on the walls of the drying chamber. A maximum in the powder yield is reached, however, after which it decreases sharply. This is caused by heating of the cyclone wall to >10 degrees C above the so-called 'sticky point' of the trehalose, causing increased particle deposits on the walls of the tower and cyclone. Increasing liquid feed flow rate or decreasing atomizing air flow rate too extensively were both detrimental to powder yield. The drying air flow rate should be as high as possible to ensure sufficient enthalpy throughput to dry the trehalose adequately to give a high powder yield. The enthalpy balance calculation for drying trehalose with the new cyclone was used successfully to interpret the results obtained. Some recommendations for optimizing powder yield of an amorphous material are given.
15764630	Treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the general adult intensive care unit: a role for oral sildenafil?	Use of inhaled nitric oxide for treatment of pulmonary hypertension in adult critical illness is limited by its mode of delivery and high costs, prompting evaluation of alternative therapies. We report the use of oral sildenafil in a patient with severe secondary pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular dysfunction. Following reduction in mean pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance with inhaled nitric oxide, crossover to sildenafil therapy maintained control of pulmonary hypertension, facilitating discontinuation of respiratory and cardiovascular organ support. The relative pulmonary vascular specificity of oral sildenafil, and its low cost, makes it an attractive therapeutic alternative to inhaled nitric oxide, and warrants further study.
15767301	Hindlimb function in the alligator: integrating movements, motor patterns, ground reaction forces and bone strain of terrestrial locomotion.	Alligator hindlimbs show high torsional loads during terrestrial locomotion, in sharp contrast to the bending or axial compressive loads that predominate in animals that use parasagittal limb movements. The present study integrates new data on hindlimb muscle function with previously obtained data on hindlimb kinematics, motor patterns, ground reaction forces and bone strain in order to (1) assess mechanisms underlying limb bone torsion during non-parasagittal locomotion in alligators and (2) improve understanding of hindlimb dynamics during terrestrial locomotion. Three dynamic stance phase periods were recognized: limb-loading, support-and-propulsion, and limb-unloading phases. Shear stresses due to torsion were maximized during the limb-loading phase, during which the ground reaction force (GRF) and caudofemoralis (CFL) muscles generated opposing moments about the femur. Hindlimb retraction during the subsequent stance-and-propulsion phase involves substantial medial rotation of the femur, powered largely by coordinated action of the GRF and CFL. Several muscles that actively shorten to flex and extend limb joints during stance phase in sprawling and erect quadrupeds act in isometric or even eccentric contraction in alligators, stabilizing the knee and ankle during the support-and-propulsion phase. Motor patterns in alligators reveal the presence of local and temporal segregation of muscle functions during locomotion with muscles that lie side by side dedicated to performing different functions and only one of 16 muscles showing clear bursts of activity during both stance and swing phases. Data from alligators add to other recent discoveries that homologous muscles across quadrupeds often do not move joints the same way as is commonly assumed. Although alligators are commonly considered models for early semi-erect tetrapod locomotion, many aspects of hindlimb kinematics, muscle activity patterns, and femoral loading patterns in alligators appear to be derived in alligators rather than reflecting an ancestral semi-erect condition.
15773486	Source identification of fine particles in Washington, DC, by expanded factor analysis modeling.	An expanded factor analysis model (ME-2) that is capable of taking into account the influence of independent variables such as wind speed, wind direction, time of year and other variables of the measured fine particle matter (PM2.5) concentration data was utilized for identifying sources of airborne pollutants and providing quantitative estimations of the contribution of each source. The chemical composition data used in this study were obtained from PM2.5 samples collected using the Interagency Monitoring of Protected Visual Environments samplers from August 1999 to December 2001 at an urban monitoring site in Washington, DC. The expanded model has been applied to two different data sets based on the particulate carbon variables. Such an approach had been successfully applied previously and provided improved source resolution in simulated and ambient concentration data. Initially, total OC and EC were used in the expanded model and were compared to the results using conventional positive matrix factorization that had been done previously using the individual carbon fractions data. In the other expanded model analysis, the eight carbon fractions were used during the modeling in order to ascertain if additional source information could be extracted from the data. In both cases, it was possible to separate diesel from spark-ignition vehicles. The use of the individual carbon fractions in the model provides information on what appears to be secondary organic aerosol formation.
15773835	Eponyms in esophageal surgery, part 2.	Eponyms in medicine are frequently criticized because they may not represent the person who first described a syndrome or disease. Although eponyms are very commonly used, most readers are probably unaware of who it was that named the diseases and whether the original description of the disease still corresponds to the modern definition. The 10 most common eponyms in esophageal diseases were revisited. The men and the disease behind Barrett's esophagus, Boerhaave's syndrome, Mallory-Weiss syndrome, Cameron ulcer, Schatzki ring, Paterson-Kelly syndrome, Plummer-Vinson, Chagas's disease, Zenker diverticulum and Killian diverticulum are reviewed here.
15775336	[Prevention of the trauma and accident in exercise of elderly people with osteoporosis]	It is the important thing that osteoporotic patient is checked by internal and orthopaedic medical check before starting exercise. If a patient with mal-alignment you may reduce the alignment by foot insole. To count unilateral foot standing time is available the motor assessment. The falling school or unilateral standing of one minute is useful to prevent the accident like a fracture in exercise for osteoporosis.
15783914	Temperature dependence of the tunneling amplitude between quantum hall edges.	Recent experiments have studied the tunneling current between the edges of a fractional quantum Hall liquid as a function of temperature and voltage. The results of the experiment are puzzling because at &quot;high&quot; temperature (600-900 mK) the behavior of the tunneling conductance is consistent with the theory of tunneling between chiral Luttinger liquids, but at low temperature it strongly deviates from that prediction dropping to zero with decreasing temperature. In this Letter we suggest a possible explanation of this behavior in terms of the strong temperature dependence of the tunneling amplitude.
15784483	Can home parenteral nutrition be provided by non-specialised centres? 2300 weeks of experience at a district general hospital in the United Kingdom.	BACKGROUND &amp; AIMS: Home Parenteral Nutrition (HPN) is an accepted treatment of intestinal failure but is mostly restricted to a few large specialist centres in the UK. The provision of high-quality HPN is of paramount importance to patients with intestinal failure, but its restriction to large specialist centres limits the number of patients who can receive it. The study aim was to determine if HPN can be effectively administered in a non-specialist centre. METHODS: Adult HPN patients at a single District General Hospital in the United Kingdom were analysed by indications, complications and outcome. RESULTS: 2310 patient weeks of HPN were provided to 23 patients, aged 18-80 years with intestinal failure. Catheter infection rate was 0.315 per patient year, with one patient excluded due to persistent nasal digitation. Patients spent 89.96% of their time at home and 82.6% achieved a Karnowsky Index of 70 (generally self-caring or greater). CONCLUSIONS: HPN can be practised at non-specialist District General Hospital level achieving complication rates comparable to large specialist centres, and this lends weight to the argument for a network model to widen provision beyond large tertiary referral specialist centres in the United Kingdom.
15790448	Extended-field radiotherapy and high-dose-rate brachytherapy with concurrent and adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy for locally advanced cervical cancer: a phase I/II study.	OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this prospective study was to investigate the toxicity and efficacy of integrating extended-field para-aortic and pelvic external radiation, high-dose-rate intracavity brachytherapy, and concurrent and adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy for locally advanced cervical cancer. METHOD: A phase I/II study was performed from 1998 to 2003 including sixty-three patients with both clinical FIGO and MRI/CT-based TNM stage IIB-IVA cervical cancer. Patients were treated with extended-field external radiation to the para-aortic and pelvic regions with 45 Gy in 25 fractions, and an additional boost to the gross nodes to 50.4 Gy and the parametrium to 59.4 Gy. Patients also received a high-dose-rate (HDR) intracavity brachytherapy with doses of 22-31 Gy to point A in 4-6 fractions. Concurrently, two cycles of cisplatin (50-80 mg/m(2)) were administered in weeks 1 and 5 during radiotherapy, as well as two cycles of cisplatin (60-80 mg/m(2)) for 1 day and 5-fluorouracil (600-800 mg/m(2)) for 4 days at 1 and 2 months after completion of radiotherapy. The treatment-related acute and late side effects were evaluated using RTOG criteria, and the disease control and survival rate were calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median follow-up interval was 36 months. RESULTS: All sixty-three patients completed the planned extended-field radiotherapy and high-dose-rate brachytherapy with 2 concurrent cycles of cisplatin. Fifty-eight (92%) patients received 2 cycles of the post-radiation adjuvant chemotherapy of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil. RTOG grade III acute toxicity was gastrointestinal (2%) and hematological (10%). No patient had grade IV acute toxicity. Late grades III-IV morbidity actuarial risk of 6% at 6.5 years primarily involved the injuries to the bowels requiring surgical intervention for intestinal obstruction or fistula formation. Initial sites of recurrence were locoregional failure alone (pelvic and para-aortic regions within the radiation field), 3%; distant metastases only, 8%; and locoregional failure plus distant metastases, 8%. The observed rates at 3-year and 5-year of locoregional control, freedom from distant metastasis, and overall survival were 86% and 86%, 81% and 81%, and 81% and 77%, respectively. CONCLUSION: Incorporating HDR brachytherapy into a regimen including concurrent chemotherapy and extended radiation appears safe and effective.
15793272	Cognitive-behavioral treatment combined with asthma education for adults with asthma and coexisting panic disorder.	This study tested the efficacy of a nurse-administered 8-week group treatment program for adults with asthma suffering from coexisting panic disorder. The program consisted of cognitive behavioral treatment (CBT) for panic disorder combined with asthma education (AE). Forty-eight women with a confirmed diagnosis of asthma and panic disorder were randomly allocated to a treatment condition (n=25) and a wait-list control condition (n=23). Twenty-five participants--15 in the treatment group and 10 in the wait-list control group--completed treatment. Repeated measures ANOVA procedures were used to compare the groups on panic and asthma outcomes at posttreatment and 6-month follow-up. The results demonstrate that the CBT-AE program is capable of producing substantial and durable antipanic and antianxiety treatment effects and led to substantial but nonsustained improvement in morning peak-flow expiratory rate and asthma-related quality of life. Implications of these findings for this clinical population are addressed.
15795536	Mechanical heart valve prostheses and persistent lupus anticoagulant: is the thrombotic risk increased?	The risk of thrombosis in patients with mechanical heart valve prostheses in spite of life-long adequate anticoagulation is 1-2% per year. Current recommendations for anticoagulation take into account the prosthesis itself and the co-morbid conditions that enhance the thrombotic risk. Lupus anticoagulant is diagnosed in many thrombotic recurrences.We designed an ambispective case-control study to evaluate thrombotic events in patients with mechanical heart valve prostheses and persistent lupus anticoagulant. Our objectives were to determine whether persistent lupus anticoagulant increased the risk of embolism in that population and thus, if a more intense anticoagulation would be recommended, even at the risk of increasing bleeding episodes.We included 16 patients and 16 controls with more than 80 patient-years of follow-up and with other risk factors for embolism. We observed no increased rate of thromboembolic events in patients than in controls, even during high-risk situations (i.e. bacterial endocarditis). Our population spent most of the time within the intended anticoagulation range.We conclude that adequate anticoagulation is the most important issue to prevent events, protecting against thrombosis without increasing the bleeding risk.
15795602	Randomized trial comparing two methods of increasing dietary calcium intake in children with inflammatory bowel disease.	OBJECTIVE: To examine the efficacy of behavioral intervention compared with enhanced standard of care nutrition intervention on increasing dietary calcium intake of children with inflammatory bowel disease. METHOD: Children aged 5 to 12 years old (N = 32) were randomly assigned to the behavioral intervention or enhanced standard of care conditions. Three-day food diaries collected on all participants at baseline and post-treatment were analyzed for dietary calcium intake. RESULTS: Children in the behavioral intervention group achieved a significantly greater mean increase in dietary calcium intake (M= 984 mg) than children in the enhanced standard of care group (M = 274 mg) (P &lt; 0.05). In the behavioral intervention group 81% of children achieved the daily calcium intake goal of 1500 mg/day compared with only 19% of children in the enhanced standard of care group, (P &lt; 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Behavioral modification appears to be significantly more effective than nutrition education alone in modifying calcium intake in children with inflammatory bowel disease.
15800448	[Polyneuropathy associated with neurofibromatosis]	INTRODUCTION: We review the literature on the spectrum of polyneuropathies associated with neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) and 2 (NF2). BACKGROUND: Symptomatic neuropathies in NF1 are rarer than in NF2, but constitute a potentially severe complication associated with frequent morbidity related to the neuropathy itself, spinal cord compression or peripheral nerve sheath tumor malignant degeneration. Neuropathies are typically observed in young men with subcutaneous neurofibromas (NF1) or cutaneous schwannomas (NF2) and are characterized by a chronic slowly worsening sensorimotor polyneuropathy of the lower limbs. In NF1, demyelinating neuropathy may occur alone or in association with axonal features, whereas in NF2, axonal neuropathies are reported. Large multinodular roots and nerves, which can be easily detected by limb MRI, are characteristic features of NF1-associated polyneuropathies. PERSPECTIVES AND CONCLUSION: Although an associated pathogenic factor may reveal an asymptomatic neuropathy, patients should be monitored carefully because of the increased morbidity and mortality related to the significant proportion of malignant nerve-sheath tumors in these patients with NF1.
15804406	Phylogenetic analyses reveal deeply divergent species lineages in the genus Sphaerobolus (Phallales: Basidiomycota).	Phylogenetic analyses of 27 artillery fungus (Sphaerobolus sp.) isolates were conducted to identify species boundaries in the genus Sphaerobolus. Multiple gene genealogies inferred from maximum likelihood, Bayesian, and maximum-parsimony analyses of sequence data from individual loci (mtSSU, ITS, EF 1-alpha, and LSU) and a combined dataset (mtSSU, ITS, and EF 1-alpha) concordantly indicate the existence of three deeply divergent lineages in the genus Sphaerobolus, each representing a phylogenetic species. These three phylogenetic species correspond to two known species: Sphaerobolus iowensis and Sphaerobolus stellatus, and a newly discovered species. Suprageneric phylogenetic analyses of the mtSSU and LSU datasets containing representatives of related genera of the gomphoid-phalloid clade of Homobasidiomycetes suggested that the undescribed taxon likely is more closely related to S. stellatus than to S. iowensis.
15816220	[Industrial nursing. Functions within the basic health unit]	The Law of Prevention of Risks at Work marked an important point of flexion in the tie sanitary professions the field of the labor health. This work will mark the objective to locate to the Industrial Nursing (a company nursing assistant) in a context near the reality. For it, it will be equipped with legal content, and those articles of the Law of Prevention of Risks at Work will be mentioned and of the Regulations for Prevention Services, that establishes the guidelines of performance of the professionals of the Basic Unit of Health (Industrial Medicina and the company nursing assistant) Also will mention the objectives of the First draft of Law of the Reformation of Normative Marco of the Law of Prevention of Risks at Work, consequence of the alarming data of sinisterness and labor accidental.
15822241	Scholarship, students, and practitioners: bringing scholarship into the expectations of practitioners.	Increased attention is being given to bridging the gap separating thanatology researchers and practitioners. College undergraduates studying to be human service professionals represent a cohort with a significant stake in bridging this gap. Inculcating in college students expectations as well as expertise to use research as practitioners not only makes sense but also is an ethical obligation for college faculty. Two noteworthy models of academic practice-Boyer's vision of scholarship and Schon's idea of reflective practice-provide a conceptual framework for faculty engaging practitioners-in-the-making in the use of research. An example of one effort to engage students in such learning is offered, along with discussion of some implications and alternatives.
15823339	A case study of molinate application in a Portuguese rice field: herbicide dissipation and proposal of a clean-up methodology.	This study was designed to monitor molinate losses in surface and underground waters during Ordram application in a rice field situated in central Portugal. Water samples were collected from different sites, before, during and about one month and a half after Ordram application. Molinate quantification was based on a solid-phase microextraction (SPME) method followed by gas chromatography with flame photometric detector (GC-FPD) analysis, and led to the conclusion that the herbicide was dissipated in the environment, reaching levels as high as 3.9 microgl(-1) in underground water and 15.8 microgl(-1) in the river receiving tail waters. The feasibility of the application of treatment methodologies based on adsorption or biodegradation as processes to remove molinate from real-world waters was assessed. These methods seem suitable to reduce molinate concentrations to values in the range of the legally recommended limits (&lt;0.5 microgl(-1)).
15836934	Supplementation of general endurance exercise with stabilisation training versus general exercise only. Physiological and functional outcomes of a randomised controlled trial of patients with recurrent low back pain.	BACKGROUND: Determination of the mode of action of new exercise techniques in different back pain populations is lacking. The effectiveness of supplementing an exercise programme with stabilisation exercises concerning physiological and functional parameters in non-specific back pain patients is unknown. METHODS: Randomised controlled trial, comparing a general trunk muscle endurance exercise approach enhanced with specific muscle stabilisation exercises (S&amp;G group) with a general exercise approach only (G group). 55 patients with recurrent back pain were randomised in S&amp;G group (n=29) and G group (n=26). Both groups received an 8-week exercise intervention and written advice. Paraspinal muscle strength and electromyographic fatigue of the erector spinae and multifidus were measured. Additionally, 3 functional speed tests were assessed. Outcomes were collected pre- and post-intervention. FINDINGS: No differences were detected for any of the paraspinal fatigue characteristics either within or between groups, apart from a significant decrease in normalised median frequency slope of the erector spinae for the G group. Paraspinal muscle strength and all functional tests have demonstrated significant within-group improvements for both groups, without any between-group differences. INTERPRETATION: An 8-week stabilisation exercise-enhanced approach presented equal benefits to a general endurance-based exercise programme for patients with recurrent non-specific back pain. A slightly steeper slope for the erector spinae in the G group was the only electromyographic fatigue alteration noted. Concomitant strength improvement probably reflects neural input changes rather than histochemical muscle changes. Physical exercise alone and not the exercise type was the key determinant for improvement in this patient group.
15837552	The role of combination antihypertensive therapy in the prevention and treatment of chronic kidney disease.	The failure to achieve blood pressure (BP) control in the general population makes a substantial contribution to the development of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and subsequent renal failure. Each year, in the United States, more than 94,000 people develop end-stage renal disease; about 65% of these cases are directly attributable to hypertension and diabetes. Like hypertension, CKD does not produce symptoms for many years, and therefore its detection, prevention, and treatment are largely dependent on the vigilance of physicians and other health care providers. Current therapeutic advances make it possible to slow the progression of CKD and to improve clinical outcomes for these patients. Large, randomized, clinical hypertension trials have shown that tighter BP control, compared with less tight BP control, can reduce progression of renal disease by 30% to 50% and cardiovascular disease by 40% to 70%. Achieving BP levels of &lt;130/80 mm Hg, as currently recommended for patients with diabetes or CKD, will often require three or more antihypertensive medications. Furthermore, reduction of BP should be accompanied by reductions in albuminuria and proteinuria to maximize potential benefits to the kidney. Evidence from numerous randomized controlled trials mandate that agents that block the renin-angiotensin system should always be included in the antihypertensive regimens of patients with CKD, particularly with the excellent safety data with serum creatinine levels &lt;3 to 4 mg/dL. Fixed-dose combination agents are useful in bringing high-risk hypertensive patients to appropriate BP goals, primarily by simplifying the complex medical regimens in these patients.
15837886	Is there a role for routine preoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography for suspected choledocholithiasis in children?	HYPOTHESIS: Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is frequently used preoperatively in adult patients with suspected choledocholithiasis. Cholelithiasis occurs much less often in children, and the indications for ERCP are not established. We hypothesized that the natural history of choledocholithiasis in children is spontaneous passage of stones through the papilla and that these children can be managed without routine preoperative ERCP. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of patients treated over a 10-year period. SETTING: Tertiary care children's hospital. PATIENTS: All patients with cholecystectomy for biliary disease. INTERVENTIONS: Cholecystectomy; intraoperative cholangiography for suspected choledocholithiasis: hyperbilirubinemia, gallstone pancreatitis, and ultrasonographic evidence of common bile duct dilation or common bile duct stones; and postoperative ERCP for symptomatic choledocholithiasis: pain and jaundice. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence and complications of choledocholithiasis and frequency of ERCP. RESULTS: One hundred patients (63 females) were studied. Indications included acute cholecystitis (10%), chronic cholecystitis (59%), gallstone pancreatitis (26%), and choledocholithiasis (5%). An intraoperative cholangiography was performed in 45 patients, and common bile duct stones were identified in 13. Expectant management of asymptomatic common bile duct stones was associated with sonographic resolution within 1 week. One patient with intraoperative cholangiography-proven choledocholithiasis required ERCP for symptoms 24 hours after operation. One additional patient, who did not undergo intraoperative cholangiography, developed symptomatic choledocholithiasis and required ERCP. There were no choledocholithiasis- or ERCP-related complications. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that choledocholithiasis occurs frequently in children and that spontaneous passage of common bile duct stones is common. This could explain the relatively high incidence of gallstone pancreatitis. Conservative management of choledocholithiasis is successful in the majority of patients. Routine preoperative or postoperative ERCP is usually not indicated.
15839281	Time-resolved optical transients in tetragonal BaTiO3.	We present and analyze the room temperature (T= 23.5 degrees C) time behavior of the transmitted intensities of polarized light passing through an unclamped (100)-type single crystal of barium titanate (BaTiO3) when subject to a time-dependent, externally applied electric field. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported observation and analysis of such time-resolved optical transients. According to a previous [J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 22, 377 (2005)] observation by the authors, this original optical technique can, in principle, be used on 18 out of 20 noncentrosymmetric crystal point groups where the first-order (Pockels) and second-order (Kerr) electrooptic effects coexist. Because of its nondestructive nature, this novel optical method would be a useful tool in other fields of condensed-matter physics in which time-behavior observation and characterization of certain physical parameters of crystals are important.
15843501	A macroglomerulus in the antennal lobe of leaf-cutting ant workers and its possible functional significance.	Ants have a well-developed olfactory system, and pheromone communication is essential for regulating social life within their colonies. We compared the organization of primary olfactory centers (antennal lobes, ALs) in the brain of two closely related species of leaf-cutting ants (Atta vollenweideri, Atta sexdens). Both species express a striking size polymorphism associated with polyethism. We discovered that the ALs of large workers contain a substantially enlarged glomerulus (macroglomerulus, MG) at the entrance of the antennal nerve. This is the first description of an MG in non-sexual individuals of an insect. The location of the MG is laterally reversed in the two species, and workers of different size express a disproportional allometry of glomerular volumes. While ALs of large workers contain an MG, glomeruli in small workers are all similar in size. We further compared electroantennogram (EAG) responses to two common trail pheromone components of leaf-cutting ants: 4-methylpyrrol-2-carboxylate and 2-ethyl-3,6-dimethylpyrazine. At high concentrations the ratio of the EAG signals to 2-ethyl-3,6-dimethylpyrazine versus 4-methylpyrrol-2-carboxylate was significantly smaller in A. vollenweideri compared with the ratio of EAG signals to the same two components in A. sexdens. The differences in EAG signals and the species specific MG location in large workers provide correlative evidence that the MG may be involved in the detection of the trail pheromone.
15850535	[Adrenal function in girls with hirsutism]	The aim of our study was to estimate the adrenal function in hirsute girls. Material and methods: 57 girls with hirsutism aged from 12 to 19 years, mean age 15.95 years, were involved into the study. The research was performed in early and middle follicular stage. Menstrual disorders were observed in 78% of them. Hirsutism was estimated with Ferriman-Gallwey scale (mean value 13+/-1.58), mean BMI was 22.7. The patients were divided into 3 groups: group 1 with clinical and laboratory symptoms of PCOS, n=29; group 2 with menstrual disorders and without elevated androgen level, n=15; group 3 without menstrual disorders and without elevated androgen level, n=13. Results: 17OHP level was the highest in group I (1.17+/-0.58 ng/ml). Diurnal cortisol profile was regular in all patients. After Synacthen injection cortisol level rose in all groups to the similar values at 60 min. The same stimuli induced intensive 17OHP secretion in group 1 (2.42+/-2.02 ng/ml) at 30 min statistically higher than in group 2 (1.46+/-0.95 ng/ml), (p=0.045). None had 21-hydroxysase defect. There were positive correlation between levels of 17OHP and LH (r=0.38), 17OHP and T (r=0.39), 17OHP and LH/FSH (r=0.40) Conclusions: 17OHP level in patients with PCOS is significantly higher then in other hirsute girls. High 17OHP and normal cortisol level after Synacthen administration in PCOS girls point that activity of enzymes involved in 17OHP production is augmented.
15852737	Intraoperative aspects and complications for the anesthesiologist in the management of patients undergoing thoracic surgery for lung cancer.	Surgery, when feasible, rappresents the treatment of choice for lung cancer. Several problems can come to the attention of the anesthesiologist in relation to the respiratory function with implications in airway control (double-lumen tube for lung collapse required for better surgical exposure of the pulmonary tissue), mechanical and gas-exchange aspects (increase in airway pressure of the dependent lung, increased blood shunt). The effect of these disorders, with no compensatory mechanism (pulmonary hypoxic vasoconstriction) and in the absence of an anesthesiologist (higher FiO2, low tidal volumes, allowing &quot;permissive hypercapnia&quot;, CPAP to the non-dependent lung), normal arterial oxygenation (hypoxemia) is impaired. Right heart failure is the major risk particularly in preexisting pulmonary hypertension Supraventricular arrytmias can often occur in case of history of cardiovascular disease, metabolic and mechanical intraoperative alterations (type and duration of surgery, pericardial and autonomic nervous system manipulations). Unusual complications are cardiac herniation and pulmonary re-expansion-edema.
15857878	Computed tomography versus bronchography in the diagnosis and management of tracheobronchomalacia in ventilator dependent infants.	AIM: To assess the relative accuracy of dynamic spiral computed tomography (CT) compared with tracheobronchography, in a population of ventilator dependent infants with suspected tracheobroncho-malacia (TBM). SETTING: Paediatric intensive care unit in a tertiary teaching hospital. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Infants referred for investigation and management of ventilator dependence and suspected of having TBM were recruited into the study. Tracheobronchography and CT were performed during the same admission by different investigators who were blinded to the results of the other investigation. The study was approved by the hospital research ethics committee, and signed parental consent was obtained. RESULTS: Sixteen infants were recruited into the study. Fifteen had been born prematurely, and five had cardiovascular malformations. In 10 patients there was good or partial correlation between the two investigations, but in six patients there was poor or no correlation. Bronchography consistently showed more dynamic abnormalities, although CT picked up an unsuspected double aortic arch. Radiation doses were 0.27-2.47 mSv with bronchography and 0.86-10.67 mSv with CT. CONCLUSIONS: Bronchography was a better investigation for diagnosing TBM and in determining opening pressures. Spiral CT is unreliable in the assessment of TBM in ventilator dependent infants. In addition, radiation doses were considerably higher with CT.
15866347	Plasma membrane poration induced by ultrasound exposure: implication for drug delivery.	Sonoporation, in the presence of ultrasound contrast agents (UCA), is a technique that permits the transfer of drugs, including genes, into cells. In this study, the size of the pores created by ultrasound application, and the duration of pore opening, have been characterized via indirect molecular probing and microscopic observation. Internalization of molecules with diameters up to 37 nm was efficient and generally well-tolerated; on the other hand, confocal microscopy revealed that 75 nm particles entered only a few cells when sonoporation was applied. In general, the larger the species to internalize, the poorer the transfer. Direct visualization of pores following insonification, using scanning electron microscopy, was hampered by the presence of numerous villi on the surface of the cells employed (MAT B III), and by the short duration of pore opening. Clearer observations of porated regions were possible using red blood cells. This research (i) confirms that sonoporation is a means with which to achieve macromolecule delivery into cells, and (ii) characterizes in some detail the phenomenon of ultrasound induction of transient pores in the cell membrane.
15866949	Bacteriophage Mu targets the trinucleotide sequence CGG.	Target specificity for bacteriophage Mu was studied using a new phage derivative that enabled cloning of Mu-host junctions from phage DNA. Insertions distributed throughout the chromosome showed no orientation bias with respect to transcription or replication polarity. Genes with a high frequency of the triplet CGG were preferred targets.
15868162	Off-season uptake of nitrogen in temperate heath vegetation.	In this field study we show that temperate coastal heath vegetation has a significant off-season uptake potential for nitrogen, both in the form of ammonium and as glycine, throughout winter. We injected 15N-ammonium and 15N 2x(13C)-glycine into the soil twice during winter and once at spring. The winter temperatures were similar to those of an average winter in the northern temperate region of Europe, with only few days of soil temperatures below zero or above 5 degrees C. The vegetation, consisting of the evergreen dwarf shrub Calluna vulgaris, the deciduous dwarf shrub Salix arenaria, and the graminoids Carex arenaria and Deschampsia flexuosa, showed high root uptake of both forms of nitrogen, both 1 day after labelling and after a month, in species specific temporal patterns. Plant uptake of 13C was not significant, providing no further evidence of intact uptake of glycine. Translocation of the labelled nitrogen to shoots was generally evident after 1 month and increased as spring approached, with different translocation strategies in the three plant functional types. Furthermore, only the graminoids showed shoot growth during winter. Increasing plant nitrogen concentration from fall to spring at temperate heaths may, hence, be due to nitrogen uptake. Our results suggest that the potential for nitrogen uptake in plants at winter is of the same order of magnitude as at summer. Hence, winter nitrogen uptake in ecosystems in the temperate/boreal region should be considered when making annual nitrogen budgets of heath ecosystems, and the view of plant nutrient uptake as low in this climatic region during winter should be revised.
15877592	Managing prices for hospital pharmaceuticals: a successful strategy for New Zealand?	OBJECTIVES: In 2002, as part of a National Hospital Pharmaceutical Strategy, the New Zealand (NZ) government agency PHARMAC commenced a 3-year period of negotiating prices for 90% of hospital pharmaceuticals on behalf of all NZ public hospitals. The present study was undertaken to determine the effects of this first year of &quot;pooled procurement.&quot; METHODS: Using price changes and volume data for each of their top 150 pharmaceutical items, chief pharmacists at 11 public hospitals calculated projected cost savings for the financial year July 2003 to June 2004. Researchers calculated total projected savings for all 11 hospitals, and for three types of hospitals. Estimates of projected savings were made for all 29 major public hospitals by using savings per bed and savings per bed-day. A sensitivity analysis was undertaken. Items showing savings were categorized by using the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical classification system. RESULTS: For the 11 hospitals, the top 150 items comprised 612 different items. Projected savings for 2003 to 2004 were NZ dollar 2,652,814, NZ dollar 658,984, and NZ dollar 127,952 for tertiary, secondary, and rural/special hospitals, respectively. Percentage savings as a median (range) of the total top 150 expenditure were: tertiary 5.28% (3.09-16.05%), secondary 7.41% (4.67-12.85%), and rural/special 9.55% (6.27-10.09%). For all 29 hospitals, estimated projected savings were NZ dollar 5,234,919 (NZ dollar 3,304,606-NZ dollar 8,044,482) by savings per bed, and NZ dollar 5,255,781 (NZ dollar 2,936,850-NZ dollar 8,693,239) by savings per bed-day. The main contributors to savings were: agents for infections, the nervous system, musculoskeletal system, and blood/blood-forming organs. CONCLUSION: The first year of pooled procurement under the National Hospital Pharmaceutical Strategy (2002-2003) has resulted in moderate savings. For all 29 major public hospitals, savings of around NZ dollar 5.2 million (dollar 2.9 million-dollar 8.7 million) or 3.7% were projected for 2003 to 2004. Longer-term effects, however, on patient outcomes and availability of pharmaceuticals, as well as on pharmaceutical expenditure, have yet to be evaluated.
15878543	Contemporary series of morbidity and mortality after lower limb amputation.	OBJECTIVES: This study was performed in order to assess morbidity and mortality associated with major lower extremity amputation according to an extensive complication registration system used in our hospital. METHODS: All consecutive patients who underwent lower limb major extremity amputation were included from January 1996 until December 2002. Complications were prospectively registered according to our standard complication registration system. RESULTS: In 97 patients 122 amputations were performed including 45 above (AKA) and 77 below (BKA) knee amputations. The conversion rate from below to above knee amputation was 14%. In 65 patients 107 complications occurred (67%). The incidence of wound infection was 10% in the BKA group and 2% in the AKA group. The most frequently reported complications were pressure sores (8%) or originating from the urinary tract (13%). The hospital mortality for BKA was 9% and for AKA 18%. Long-term survival was 62% at 1 year, 50% at 2 years and 29% at 5 years. CONCLUSIONS: An extensive registration system provides us with a detailed insight into the incidence, consequence and cause of complications. Major lower extremity amputations are still associated with considerable morbidity and mortality.
15898543	Radiometric framework for image mosaicking.	Nonuniform exposures often affect imaging systems, e.g., owing to vignetting. Moreover, the sensor's radiometric response may be nonlinear. These characteristics hinder photometric measurements. They are particularly annoying in image mosaicking, in which images are stitched to enhance the field of view. Mosaics suffer from seams stemming from radiometric inconsistencies between raw images. Prior methods feathered the seams but did not address their root cause. We handle these problems in a unified framework. We suggest a method for simultaneously estimating the radiometric response and the camera nonuniformity, based on a frame sequence acquired during camera motion. The estimated functions are then compensated for. This permits image mosaicking, in which no seams are apparent. There is no need to resort to dedicated seam-feathering methods. Fundamental ambiguities associated with this estimation problem are stated.
15907333	Extinction risk, coloured noise and the scaling of variance.	The impact of temporally correlated fluctuating environments (coloured noise) on the extinction risk of populations has become a main focus in theoretical population ecology. In this study we particularly focus on the extinction risk in strongly correlated environments. Here, we found that, in contrast to moderate auto-correlation, the extinction risk was highly dependent on the process of noise generation, in particular on the method of variance scaling. Such scaling is commonly applied to avoid variance-driven biases when comparing the extinction risk under white and coloured noise. We show that for strong auto-correlation often-used scaling techniques lead to a high variability in the variances of the resulting time series and thus to deviations in the subsequent extinction risk. Therefore, we present an alternative scaling method that always delivers the target variance, even in the case of strong auto-correlation. In contrast to earlier techniques, our very intuitive method is not bound to auto-regressive processes but can be applied to all types of coloured noises. We strongly recommend our method to generate time series when the target of interest is the effect of noise colour on extinction risk not obscured by any variance effects.
15909833	[Transmyocardial laser revascularization of the myocardium]	The paper presents the results of a 5-year follow-up after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) combined with transmyocardial laser revascularization (TMLR). The study revealed high efficiency and safety of the combined surgery in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) associated with diffuse lesions of coronary arteries. The procedure improved the myocardial perfusion and contractile function, thus significantly increasing the patients' life quality. Combined CABG + TMLR noticeably improved stenocardia functional class, increased physical exercise tolerance and led to a significant reduction in nitrate agent consumption in patients with CHD.
15910897	Ecotoxicological effects of cadmium on three ornamental plants.	Ecotoxicological effects of cadmium (Cd) on three ornamental plants African marigold (Tagetes erecta), scarlet sage (Salvia splendens) and sweet hibiscus (Abelmoschus manihot) were investigated. Seeds of these plants were exposed to five different concentrations of Cd (0-50 mgl(-1)). Ecotoxicological indexes based on inhibition rate (IC) of seed germination, root and shoot elongation, biomass (fresh weight and dry weight), as well as IC50 (Cd concentration when 50% plants show inhibition) and tolerance indexes (the ratio of maximum root length in an experimental group to that in a control group) were determined. The results indicated that Cd had little effects (p>0.05) on seed germination of the three plants and shoot elongation of scarlet sage (S. splendens). Cadmium had significant (p&lt;0.05) inhibitory effects on root elongation of the three plants and shoot elongation of African marigold (T. erecta). The fresh weight biomass of scarlet sage (S. splendens) was most sensitive to Cd, while that of sweet hibiscus (A. manihot) was least sensitive. On a dry weight basis, African marigold (T. erecta) was the least sensitive, and scarlet sage (S. splendens) was the most sensitive to Cd. Based on IC50 of seed germination, sweet hibiscus (A. manihot) was the most insensitive plant with an IC50 value as high as 428.0 gl(-1). According to Cd-tolerance indexes under the same Cd concentration, sweet hibiscus (A. manihot) was the most tolerant plant whereas scarlet sage (S. splendens) was the most sensitive one.
15912981	Laparascopic cholecystectomy: cystic duct occlusion with titanium clips or ligature? A prospective randomized study.	During laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC), cystic duct occlusion can be done with titanium clips or laparoscopically tied knots. However, till date, there is no randomized, controlled study reported in the literature that has prospectively compared the outcome using either of these methods. In the present study, 105 patients who were to undergo LC were randomly assigned to two groups. Group I comprised patients undergoing cystic duct occlusion with clips while group II comprised those undergoing cystic duct occlusion with knots. Our aim was to compare the postoperative outcome in both the cases. The incidence of overall bile leak following LC was 4 out of 105 (3.8%) while the leak rate following cystic duct occlusion with clips was 2 out 52 (3.9%), and that following ligature was 2 out of 53 (3.8%). The procedure using ligature took slightly longer time than that using clips. There was no significant difference in the postoperative outcome in either group. The use of ligature is a feasible, safe and cost-effective alternative to the use of titanium clips for cystic duct occlusion during LC.
15914822	Effects of public policy on adolescents' cigar use: evidence from the National Youth Tobacco Survey.	To determine the effect of prices and regulations on youth cigar demand, we estimated logistic regression models of the probability of current cigar smoking among students in grades 6 to 12 with data from the 1999 and 2000 waves of the National Youth Tobacco Survey. We found that youth cigar demand is sensitive to price but not state tobacco-control regulations. The results suggested that raising excise taxes on cigars could reduce cigar use prevalence among youths.
15918912	Reducing perinatal mortality among Indigenous babies in Queensland: should the first priority be better primary health care or better access to hospital care during confinement?	BACKGROUND: The perinatal mortality rate among Indigenous Australians is still double that of the rest of the community. The aim of our study was to estimate the extent to which increased risk of low birthweight and preterm birth among Indigenous babies in Queensland account for their continuing mortality excess. If a large proportion of excess deaths can be explained by the unfavourable birthweight and gestational age distribution of Indigenous babies, then that would suggest that priority should be given to implementing primary health care interventions to reduce the risk of low birthweight and preterm birth (eg, interventions to reduce maternal smoking or genitourinary infections). Conversely, if only a small proportion is explained by birthweight and gestational age, then other strategies might need to be considered such as improving access to high-quality hospital care around the time of confinement. METHODOLOGY: Population-based, descriptive study of perinatal mortality rates among Indigenous and non-Indigenous babies, in Queensland, stratified by birthweight and gestational age. RESULTS: Indigenous babies are twice as likely to die as their non-Indigenous counterparts (rate ratio1998-2002: 2.01; 95%ci 1.77, 2.28). However, within separate strata of birth weight and gestational age, Indigenous and non-Indigenous rates are similar. The Mantel-Haenszel rate ratio adjusted for birth weight and gestational age was 1.13 (0.99, 1.28). This means that most of the excess mortality in Indigenous babies is largely due to their unfavourable birth weight and gestational-age distributions. If Indigenous babies had the same birth weight and gestational age distribution as their non-Indigenous counterparts, then the relative disparity would be reduced by 87% and 20 fewer Indigenous babies would die in Queensland each year. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that Indigenous mothers at high risk of poor outcome (for example those Indigenous mothers in preterm labour) have good access to high quality medical care around the time of confinement. The main reason Indigenous babies have a high risk of death is because they are born too early and too small. Thus, to reduce the relative excess of deaths among Indigenous babies, priority should be given to primary health care initiatives aimed at reducing the prevalence of low birth weight and preterm birth.
15926761	Budget impact of tegaserod on a managed care organization formulary.	We sought to develop a budget impact model that assesses the economic effect of adding tegaserod for the management of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with constipation to the formulary of a managed care organization (MCO). The model estimates the per patient economic impact and the per member, per month (PMPM) economic impact of patients 6 months before and 6 months after the initiation of tegaserod. Resource utilization data, taken from medical and pharmacy administrative claims data, were based on a retrospective, longitudinal study of 3365 patients administered tegaserod through a large, geographically diverse MCO. Costs were estimated for 2 patient subgroups, women with IBS and other gastrointestinal (GI) diagnoses. Sensitivity analyses were performed by varying several model input parameters. The base-case model resulted in an incremental PMPM budget impact associated with the use of tegaserod of 0.01 dollars. Total per patient budget impact (for all resources, including tegaserod) for a 6-month period was 274.34 dollars for women with IBS and 301.84 dollars for women with other GI diagnoses. Overall, 25.9% (29.0% for women with IBS group and 21.9% for women with other GI diagnoses group) of the cost of tegaserod was offset by decreases in resource utilization. Key drivers of post-tegaserod reductions in resource costs were hospital stays, outpatient office visits, emergency department visits, endoscopic procedures, and nonendoscopic procedures. Tegaserod therapy can decrease GI-related resource utilization, resulting in a significant cost-offset percentage. When the associated budget impact of adding tegaserod to its formulary is absorbed across an entire MCO population, the PMPM impact of tegaserod is small.
15929225	Federal employees health benefits program; revision of contract cost principles and procedures, and miscellaneous changes. Final rule.	The U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is issuing a final regulation amending the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Acquisition Regulation (FEHBAR). This regulation provides additional contract cost principles and procedures for FEHB Program experience-rated contracts and is intended to clarify our requirements and enhance our oversight of FEHB carriers.
15931514	On the success of a swindle: pollination by deception in orchids.	A standing enigma in pollination ecology is the evolution of pollinator attraction without offering reward in about one third of all orchid species. Here I review concepts of pollination by deception, and in particular recent findings in the pollination syndromes of food deception and sexual deception in orchids. Deceptive orchids mimic floral signals of rewarding plants (food deception) or mating signals of receptive females (sexual deception) to attract pollen vectors. In some food deceptive orchids, similarities in the spectral reflectance visible to the pollinator in a model plant and its mimic, and increased reproductive success of the mimic in the presence of the model have been demonstrated. Other species do not mimic specific model plants but attract pollinators with general attractive floral signals. In sexually deceptive orchids, floral odor is the key trait for pollinator attraction, and behaviorally active compounds in the orchids are identical to the sex pheromone of the pollinator species. Deceptive orchids often show high variability in floral signals, which may be maintained by negative frequency-dependent selection, since pollinators can learn and subsequently avoid common deceptive morphs more quickly than rare ones. The evolution of obligate deception in orchids seems paradoxical in the light of the typically lower fruit set than in rewarding species. Pollination by deception, however, can reduce self-pollination and encourage pollen flow over longer distances, thus promoting outbreeding. Although some food deceptive orchids are isolated through postzygotic reproductive barriers, sexually deceptive orchids lack post-mating barriers and species isolation is achieved via specific pollinator attraction. Recent population genetic and phylogenetic investigations suggest gene-flow within subgeneric clades, but pollinator-mediated selection may maintain species-specific floral traits.
15954084	Postnatal development of rat pups after maternal exposure to diethanolamine.	BACKGROUND: Diethanolamine (DEA), a widely used surfactant, was administered to pregnant mice at the oral LD10 resulting in failure of pups to grow and thrive through postnatal day (PND) 3 [National Toxicology Program, 1987; York et al., Teratology 37:503-504, 1988]. The toxicity profile for DEA differs among rodent species. This study investigated DEA-induced postnatal toxicity in a second species. METHODS: Timed-mated Sprague-Dawley rats were dosed (0, 50, 125, 200, 250, or 300 mg DEA/kg/day, p.o.) on gestational days (GD) 6-19. Dams and pups were monitored for body weight, feed/water intake, clinical signs, litter size, and sex ratio. At necropsy (PND 21), maternal liver and kidney weights and number of uterine implantation sites were recorded. RESULTS: The high-dose group was terminated early due to excessive toxicity. The estimated maternal LD10 was 218 mg/kg/day. Maternal effects included decreased body weight and relative feed intake (>or=200 mg/kg/day), transiently reduced relative water intake (125 and 250 mg/kg/day), and increased absolute kidney weight (>or=125 mg/kg/day). Postimplantation loss (PND 0) and pup mortality (PND 0-4) were increased (>or=200 and >or=125 mg/kg/day, respectively). Pup body weight was reduced (>or=200 mg/kg/day) as late as PND 21. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates reduced postnatal growth and survival in a second species after gestational exposure to DEA, persistence of toxic effects through the end of lactation, possibly due to long elimination half-life, and maternal and developmental toxicity no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAELs) (50 mg/kg/day) and lowest-observed-adverse-effect level (LOAELs) (125 mg/kg/day) for oral DEA exposure during embryo/fetal development in the rat.
15957557	A model of contagion through competition in the aggressive behaviors of elementary school students.	This article extends the work of Kellam, Ling, Merisca, Brown and Ialongo (1998) by applying a mathematical model of competition between children to peer contagion in the aggressive behaviors of elementary school students. Nonlinearity in the relationship between group aggression and individual aggression at 2-year follow-up is present. Consistent with the findings of Kellam et al. (1998), hierarchical linear modeling indicates that the relationship is statistically significant for those students whose initial parental ratings of aggressive behavior were above the sample median. In the context of competition between students, the behavior of initially aggressive students may be negatively reinforced. Lowering aggression in the school environment may therefore be the most effective way to lower the level of these students' aggressive behavior.
15965033	Formative research for hygiene promotion in Kyrgyzstan.	Formative research for hygiene promotion was used to gather data relating to hygiene practices in rural Kyrgyzstan. Some of the hand-washing and faeces disposal practices observed were sub-optimal from a public health perspective. In combination with the poverty, limited medical services and poor water supply infrastructure characteristic of the study area, it is likely that these factors increase the risk of diarrhoeal infections among Kyrgyz children. An association was found between increased rates of hand-washing following latrine use and ownership of a washstand. This offers some empirical support for the idea that promotion of hand-washing technologies can form a useful part of a hygiene promotion intervention. The process followed in conducting the formative research is outlined in some detail along with a discussion of some of its achievements and limitations.
15965501	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells induce changes in gene expression of CD4 and CD8 T cells.	To examine the impact of tumors on the immune system, we compared global gene expression profiles of peripheral blood T cells from previously untreated patients with B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with those from age-matched healthy donors. Although the cells analyzed were not part of the malignant clone, analysis revealed differentially expressed genes, mainly involved in cell differentiation in CD4 cells and defects in cytoskeleton formation, vesicle trafficking, and cytotoxicity in CD8 cells of the CLL patients. In coculture experiments using CLL cells and T cells from healthy allogeneic donors, similar defects developed in both CD4 and CD8 cells. These changes were induced only with direct contact and were not cytokine mediated. Identification of the specific pathways perturbed in the T cells of cancer-bearing patients will allow us to assess steps to repair these defects, which will likely be required to enhance antitumor immunity.
15967258	Urological retroperitoneoscopic surgery for patients with prior intra-abdominal surgery.	OBJECTIVE: To determine whether previous intra-abdominal surgery is associated with surgical outcome in patients undergoing urological retroperitoneoscopic surgery. PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred seventeen cases of urological retroperitoneoscopic surgery, including 78 cases of retroperitoneoscopic radical nephrectomy (RN) for localized renal tumor and 39 cases of retroperitoneoscope-assisted radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) for upper urinary tract cancer, were evaluated. Thirty (38.5%) of the 78 patients who underwent RN and 13 (33.3%) of the 39 patients who underwent RNU had a history of intra-abdominal surgery. The patients were divided into two groups: those who had undergone prior intra-abdominal surgery (OP+) and those who had not (OP-). Patients' backgrounds, degree of surgical invasiveness, and period of convalescence were compared between the OP+ and OP- groups. RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the OP+ and OP- groups in terms of background, surgical invasiveness or convalescence, except for age in the patients who had undergone RN. Complications in the studied cases were unrelated to any history of intra-abdominal surgery. CONCLUSION: Previous intra-abdominal surgery is not associated with a negative outcome of urological retroperitoneoscopic surgery in patients with localized renal tumors and those with upper urinary tract cancer.
15968672	Parallel imaging for NMR microscopy at 14.1 Tesla.	Parallel imaging techniques using arrays of mutually decoupled coils have become standard on almost all clinical imaging systems. Such techniques also have great potential for high-field magnetic resonance (MR) microscopy, where measurement times are usually long and susceptibility artifacts can be severe. However, it is technically very challenging to design efficient high-frequency phased arrays for small-diameter, vertical-bore magnets, especially since standard decoupling methods, such as impedance mismatched preamplifiers, cannot be easily integrated. A four-coil phased array was constructed for microimaging at 600 MHz, and sensitivity encoding (SENSE) and generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisitions (GRAPPA) reconstructions of spin-echo and echo-planar images of the mouse brain were performed to reduce imaging time and susceptibility artifacts, respectively.
15970782	Risk perception and impact of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on work and personal lives of healthcare workers in Singapore: what can we learn?	INTRODUCTION: Healthcare workers (HCWs) were at the frontline during the battle against Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). Understanding their fears and anxieties may hold lessons for handling future outbreaks, including acts of bioterrorism. METHOD: We measured risk perception and impact on personal and work life of 15,025 HCWs from 9 major healthcare institutions during the SARS epidemic in Singapore using a self-administered questionnaire and Impact of Events Scale and analyzed the results with bivariate and multivariate statistics. RESULTS: From 10,511 valid questionnaires (70% response), we found that although the majority (76%) perceived a great personal risk of falling ill with SARS, they (69.5%) also accepted the risk as part of their job. Clinical staff (doctors and nurses), staff in daily contact with SARS patients, and staff from SARS-affected institutions expressed significantly higher levels of anxiety. More than half reported increased work stress (56%) and work load (53%). Many experienced social stigmatization (49%) and ostracism by family members (31%), but most (77%) felt appreciated by society. Most felt that the personal protective measures implemented were effective (96%) and that the institutional policies and protocols were clear (93%) and timely (90%). CONCLUSION: During epidemics, healthcare institutions have a duty to protect HCWs and help them cope with their personal fears and the very stressful work situation. Singapore's experience shows that simple protective measures based on sound epidemiological principles, when implemented in a timely manner, go a long way to reassure HCWs.
15971712	The Cardiocoil stent-artery interaction.	An analytical approach for the mechanical interaction of the self-expanding Cardiocoil stent with the stenosed artery is presented. The damage factor as the contact stress at the stent-artery interface is determined. The stent is considered as an elastic helical rod having a nonlinear pressure-displacement dependence, while the artery is modeled by an elastic cylindrical shell. An influence of a moderate relative thickness of the shell is estimated. The equations for both the stent and the artery are presented in the stent-associated helical coordinates. The computational efficiency of the model enabled to carry out a parametric study of the damage factor. Comparative examinations are conducted for the stents made of the helical rods with circular and rectangular cross sections. It was found, in particular, that, under same other conditions, the damage factor for the stent with a circular cross section may be two times larger than that for a rectangular one.
15972266	Ustilagic acid secretion by Pseudozyma fusiformata strains.	Eight strains of Pseudozyma fusiformata were examined for antifungal activity. All of them had the same spectrum of action and were active against many species of yeasts, yeast-like and filamentous fungi. They secreted glycolipids, which were purified from the culture liquid by column and thin-layer chromatography. According to nuclear magnetic resonance and mass-spectroscopy experiments all strains produced ustilagic acid, a cellobioside-containing 2,15,16-trihydroxypalmitic acid as aglycon, 3-hydroxycaproic acid and acetic acid as O-acylic substituents.
15976270	Ice sheet and solid Earth influences on far-field sea-level histories.	Previous predictions of sea-level change subsequent to the last glacial maximum show significant, systematic discrepancies between observations at Tahiti, Huon Peninsula, and Sunda Shelf during Lateglacial time (approximately 14,000 to 9000 calibrated years before the present). We demonstrate that a model of glacial isostatic adjustment characterized by both a high-viscosity lower mantle (4 x 10(22) Pa s) and a large contribution from the Antarctic ice sheet to meltwater pulse IA (approximately 15-meters eustatic equivalent) resolves these discrepancies. This result supports arguments that an early and rapid Antarctic deglaciation contributed to a sequence of climatic events that ended the most recent glacial period of the current ice age.
15979167	The many roles of starburst amacrine cells.	Starburst amacrine cells release two classical neurotransmitters, ACh and GABA. In a tour de force of paired-cell recording, Zheng et al. now show that the starburst cells are mutually excitatory during early development but mutually inhibitory in adult animals. The change occurs by remodeling of both the cholinergic and the GABAergic synapses between starburst cells. The finding gives a precise mechanistic basis for the developmental waves of activity in the retina.
15985912	Elements of successful restraint and seclusion reduction programs and their application in a large, urban, state psychiatric hospital.	In recent years, there has been a strong desire on the part of inpatient psychiatric programs to reduce the use of seclusion and mechanical restraint. There is a consensus among those who have published descriptions of successfully implemented restraint and seclusion reduction programs that the essential elements of such programs are high level administrative endorsement, participation by recipients of mental health services, culture change, training, data analysis, and individualized treatment. This article describes these elements and their application in a successful restraint reduction program at Creedmoor Psychiatric Center, a large, urban, state-operated psychiatric hospital that reduced its combined restraint and seclusion rate by 67% over a period of 2 years.
15993945	Formation of lanthanide(III) texaphyrin complexes with DNA controlled by the size of the central metal cation.	Interaction of lanthanide(III) texaphyrins (LnTEX) with calf thymus DNA was studied by UV-Vis, CD, resonance light scattering spectroscopy and by laser flash photolysis. The thermal stability of the LnTEX/DNA complexes decreases with the increasing lanthanide ion radius: LuTEX>DyTEX>GdTEX>EuTEX>CeTEX> or =LaTEX. Texaphyrins LaTEX, LuTEX and GdTEX produce O2(1Deltag) in methanol solutions. In a phosphate buffer, the concentration of O2(1Deltag) produced by these texaphyrins bound to DNA is affected by the formation of aggregates on the DNA backbone.
16014834	HIV prevalence and risk factors in women of Accra, Gghana: results from the women's health study of Accra.	The Women's Health Study of Accra is a cross-sectional study designed to measure the burden of communicable and noncommunicable diseases in adult women residing in Accra, Ghana. This study assessed the prevalence rate of HIV and risk factors associated with HIV infection in 1,328 women age 18 years and older. The weighted overall HIV prevalence rate for women residing in Accra is 3.1%. The highest prevalence rate of HIV infections was identified in women age 25 to 29 years at 8.3%, OR (95%CI) 3.8 (1.68-8.33), P = 001. In addition to young age, other significant risk factors included sexually transmitted infection (STI) symptoms (OR 1.81 [1.14-2.87], P = 0.012) and mean number of lifetime sexual partners (P &lt; 0.001). All HIV-positive women were sexually active. Other findings significantly associated with HIV-positive status included chills, oral lesions, tuberculosis, bloody sputum production, and intestinal parasite infections. There was a significant association with HIV-positive status and locality of residence in the city. There was no association with reported use of condoms, blood transfusions, surgery, reproductive health history including pregnancy or number of sexual partners, symptoms suggestive of AIDS, or self-perception of health. There was also no association with education level, religion, ethnicity, marital status, or socioeconomic level. This community-based study confirms the need to target young, sexually active women for HIV educational and preventive initiatives. A strong Ghanaian public health initiative to increase awareness of the risks of HIV and the link to STIs is critical at this time to prevent the further increase in HIV prevalence and the resultant HIV-associated illnesses.
16042151	Determination of quinolizidine alkaloids in Sophora tonkinensis by HPCE.	A simple, rapid and reliable high-performance capillary electrophoresis method has been developed to determine quantitatively the alkaloid content of Sophora tonkinensis, a Chinese herb commonly known as shan-dou-gen. A total of seven quinolizidine alkaloids (cytisine, sophocarpine, matrine, lehmannine, sophoranol, oxymatrine and oxysophocarpine) could be readily separated within 15 min. The running buffer was 50 mM phosphate buffer (pH 2.5) containing 1% hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin and 3.3% isopropanol in water. The applied voltage was 25 kV, the capillary temperature was 25 degrees C, the detection wavelength was 200 nm and scopolamine butylbromide was used as internal standard. The method was used to analyse the chemical constituents of two commercial alternatives to shan-dou-gen. The alkaloid constituents of authentic shan-dou-gen gave a specific HPCE electropherogram that could be used to distinguish the drug from potential substitutes. Furthermore, the content of oxymatrine and the total content of the seven quinolizidine alkaloids could be used as quantitative markers in order to assess the quality of S. tonkinensis.
16079572	A physio-anthropological approach in evaluation of human adaptability to living environment: in the case of artificial light environment.	Attention has been focused on human adaptability to human-adopted artificially modern and comfortable environments which may not always match the adaptability by the physiological state of humans. This discrepancy was found to induce a slight tension in the human body on evaluation with a physio-anthropological approach. Although a standard methodological approach has yet to be established, the present study attempted to evaluate human adaptability to artificial light environment, based on evaluations from three major possible perspectives: a) central nervous system, b) autonomic nervous system and c) biological rhythm. In order to detect the slight tension, human volunteers were exposed to an artificial light environment, and the appropriate physiological parameters were then examined from photic signal pathways in a brain. The findings revealed that a higher color temperature of fluorescent lamps induced a slight tension, although many other factors remained to be elucidated.
16080628	[Model for calculation of fish contamination by 137Cs and its application for Lake Kozhanovskoe (Bryansk Region)]	A dynamic model was developed for evaluation of the fish contamination by 137Cs. The dynamics of the accumulation of the radionuclide and the elimination is calculated taking into account the ecological and physiological characteristics of the fish, such as growth and metabolic rates, its position in the food chains of the aquatic ecosystem. The biological elimination of 137Cs from the freshwater fish is proportional to the metabolic rate of the fish. The dimensionless coefficient of the proportionality is equal to epsilonA = 0.3 +/- 0.1. The model was applied for the reconstruction of the long-term dynamics of 137Cs in the food chain &quot;goldfish-pike&quot; from Lake Kozhanovskoe (Bryansk Region, Russia). In 1990-1999 the specific activity of 137Cs in goldfish (generation of 1990) varied in range about 5-20 kBq/kg, whereas the specific activity of 137Cs in pike (generation of 1989) varied in range about 20-40 kBq/kg. The comparison with the data of the observations confirmed that the presented method allows to evaluate adequately the levels and the dynamics of 137Cs accumulation by the freshwater fish.
16081928	Phylogenetic and pathotypic comparison of concurrent urine and rectal Escherichia coli isolates from men with febrile urinary tract infection.	Among men with febrile urinary tract infection (FUTI), whether the host's fecal flora is the source for the urine strain (&quot;fecal-urethral&quot; hypothesis), and whether pathogenesis is driven by prevalence versus special pathogenicity, are unknown. Accordingly, pretherapy urine isolates from 65 men with FUTI were compared with concurrent rectal isolates from the same hosts according to serotype, genomic profile, phylogenetic group, and virulence genotype. The host's multiple rectal colonies included only the urine clone in 25% of subjects, the urine clone plus additional clones in 22%, and only nonurine clones in 54%. Compared with the 67 unique rectal clones, the 65 urine isolates were significantly enriched for phylogenetic group B2, virulence-associated serotypes, and specific virulence genes and contained more virulence genes (median, 10 versus 6: P &lt; 0.001). In multivariable models, phylogenetic group B2, hlyD (hemolysin), cnf1 (cytotoxic necrotizing factor), iroN (siderophore receptor), ompT (outer membrane protease), and malX (pathogenicity island marker) most strongly predicted urine source. These findings challenge the fecal-urethral and prevalence hypotheses for FUTI pathogenesis and instead strongly support the possibility of alternate infection routes in some men and the special pathogenicity hypothesis. They also identify specific bacterial traits as potential targets for anti-FUTI interventions.
16082605	Transitioning from argatroban to warfarin in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia: an analysis of outcomes in patients with elevated international normalized ratio (INR).	BACKGROUND: Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) can lead to catastrophic thromboembolic complications and requires treatment with an alternative, rapidly active anticoagulant, such as a direct thrombin inhibitor (DTI), either to prevent or treat these complications. Switching to oral warfarin after initial treatment with a DTI is necessary in most patients. Most references related to warfarin suggest that an increased risk for bleeding will occur with elevated international normalized ratios (INRs) > 4.6. In patients receiving argatroban, it is not uncommon to achieve an INR > 4 during this transition. Because the clinical outcomes in patients achieving an INR > 4 during combined argatroban/warfarin therapies for HIT are not well described, we evaluated the clinical outcomes of 111 patients with this phenomenon. METHODS: We identified patients from the prospective studies of argatroban anticoagulation, Argatroban-911 and Argatroban-915. Data collected from these studies included death from all causes, amputation, new thrombosis, major bleeding, INR values, argatroban doses, aPTT values, platelet counts, and duration of therapy. RESULTS: Patients were on argatroban monotherapy for a median of 2.8 (0.1-8.1) days, and on cotherapy for a median of 3.7 (0.9-12.8) days. The median platelet count was 70.9 (18-325) x 10(9)/L at the time of HIT diagnosis and increased to 94 (30-324) x 10(9)/L by the time warfarin was initiated. At a median argatroban dose of 1.4 (0.2-2.0) mcg/kg/min, the maximum INR ranged from 4.1 to 21.2 (median 6.4, n = 111) and the corresponding aPTT ranged from 48.1 to 105 (median 71, n = 93) seconds. After argatroban cessation, the first recorded INR within 4 to 24 hours ranged from 1.5 to 12.5 (median 2.9, n = 58). Adverse clinical outcomes occurred in 9 (8.1%) patients during cotherapy and in 12 (10.8%) patients after argatroban anticoagulation was discontinued. Adverse clinical outcomes included 7 cases of new thrombosis, 3 amputations, 12 deaths and 1 major bleed. Eleven of 12 (91.7%) patients died due to causes other than thrombosis, and most deaths (83%) occurred following cotherapy. Five (4.5%) patients developed new thrombosis during argatroban/warfarin cotherapy despite an INR > 4. In contrast only 1 (0.9%) patient experienced major bleeding. CONCLUSION: In patients receiving argatroban/warfarin cotherapy and with an elevated INR > 4, the risk for thrombosis exceeds the risk of bleeding. Traditional paradigms concerning elevated INRs and warfarin may need to be redesigned for the patient population on cotherapy with direct thrombin inhibitors.Abbreviated Abstract. The clinical outcomes of 111 patients with INRs > 4 while on combined argatroban (dose &lt; or = 2 mcg/kg/min) and warfarin were evaluated. Adverse clinical outcomes (7 new thrombosis, 3 amputations, 12 deaths and 1 major bleed) occurred in 21 patients. Eleven deaths were due to causes other than thrombosis. Five patients developed new thrombosis while only 1 had major bleeding. The risk for thrombosis exceeds the risk of bleeding in patients with HIT despite an INR > 4.
16084371	Simultaneous nitrification and formaldehyde biodegradation in an activated sludge unit.	The simultaneous removal of formaldehyde and ammonium in a lab-scale activated sludge unit was investigated. The unit was operated at a hydraulic retention time of 2.4 days with an ammonium concentration in the influent of 350 mg NH4+-N/L, maintaining the ammonium loading rate at 0.15 g NH4+-N/Ld during the operation time. However, the applied organic loading rate was increased stepwise by increasing the formaldehyde concentration from 26 up to 3168 mg/L, corresponding to 0.01-1.40 g COD/Ld. High formaldehyde removal efficiencies, around 99.5% (+/-0.38), were maintained at all the formaldehyde concentrations. Ammonium removal was also very high during the operation period, around 99.9% (+/-0.01). The ammonium concentration in the effluent was lower than 0.1 mg NH4+-N/L at all applied organic loading rates, indicating that there was no inhibition of nitrification by formaldehyde.
16084924	Risky procedures by nurses in hospitals: problems and (contemplated) refusals of orders by physicians, and views of physicians and nurses.	Occurrence of problems with, refusals of orders and contemplated refusals of orders for risky procedures by nurses in Dutch hospitals and views on the safety of performance was studied using postal questionnaires (600 physicians and 3200 nurses, response 60-71%). Of the respondents, 11-30% experienced problems with and (contemplated) refusals of orders for risky procedures in the previous 12 months. Gynaecologists and internists most frequently mentioned problems concerning the practical performance of the procedure (44% and 30%, respectively). The reason for a problem or a contemplated refusal most frequently given by nurses was that they disagreed with the medication policy (34% and 35%, respectively). The reason for a refusal most frequently given by the gynaecologists, internists and nurses was that the nurses themselves were of the opinion that they did not have the necessary authorisation (95%, 67%, and 62%, respectively). With regard to certain procedures, the views of professionals are more strict than the current legal regulations.
16112012	Intra-abdominal ovarian-type mucinous cystadenoma associated with fallopian tube-like structure and aberrant epididymal tissue in a male patient.	Ovarian-type mucinous tumors may occasionally occur in the retroperitoneum, pancreas, and liver exclusively or almost exclusively in women. In men, only few cases of such neoplasms arising within or around the testis have been reported. We describe a unique case of an ovarian-type mucinous cystadenoma occurring in the peritoneal cavity of a 65-year-old male patient with secondary adrenocortical insufficiency and hypogonadism. There was a typical fallopian tube enclosed in the capsule of the tumor. Contiguous to that, accessory ectopic epididymal tissue was found. We have interpreted this case as the result of a minor disorder of embryonic development involving structures of both mllerian and wolffian origin. The disproportion of sexual hormones might have had a role in inducing intra-abdominal mllerian remnants to give rise to the mucinous cystadenoma.
16128225	The relation of the pleural thickening in tuberculosis pleurisy with the activity of adenosine deaminase.	BACKGROUND: Residual pleural thickening (RPT) still occurs in most patients with tuberculosis pleurisy despite advances in the treatment of tuberculosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the significance of RPT in tuberculosis pleurisy with the patients clinical findings, biochemical and microbiological properties of pleural effusion and with the total adenosine deaminase (ADA) and isoenzymes levels. METHODS: 121 tuberculosis pleurisy patients were evaluated retrospectively. According to posteroanterior chest x-rays, the 63 (52%) cases with the thickness 2 mm or more in lower lateral hemithorax were grouped as I and the 58 (48%) cases without pleural thickness were grouped as II. The amount of pleural effusion was classified into small, medium or massive according to their chest x-rays. In both groups; sex, age, symptoms score, bacteriological and biochemical tests and ADA levels were recorded. RESULTS: 81 (67%) male and 40 (33%) female, overall 121 patients were enrolled into the study. RPT was found higher in males (p=0.014) and the increase ran parallel with the amount of cigarette smoking (p=0.014). RPT was found to be lower in small effusions (p=0.001). The group with RPT, the serum albumin was found lower (p=0.002), pleural fluid total protein (p=0.047) and the ratio of pleural fluid protein to serum protein (p=0.002) were found higher. In group I, total ADA: 69.5 +/- 38.9 IU/L and ADA2: 41.3 +/- 31.6 IU/L were higher than the cases without RPT (p=0.032, p=0.017, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: We suggest that the immunological mechanisms are effective in the development of pleural thickening.
