10051653	The Salmonella invasin SipB induces macrophage apoptosis by binding to caspase-1.	Recently, Salmonella spp. were shown to induce apoptosis in infected macrophages. The mechanism responsible for this process is unknown. In this report, we establish that the Inv-Spa type III secretion apparatus target invasin SipB is necessary and sufficient for the induction of apoptosis. Purified SipB microinjected into macrophages led to cell death. Binding studies show that SipB associates with the proapoptotic protease caspase-1. This interaction results in the activation of caspase-1, as seen in its proteolytic maturation and the processing of its substrate interleukin-1beta. Caspase-1 activity is essential for the cytotoxicity. Functional inhibition of caspase-1 activity by acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-chloromethyl ketone blocks macrophage cytotoxicity, and macrophages lacking caspase-1 are not susceptible to Salmonella-induced apoptosis. Taken together, the data demonstrate that SipB functions as an analog of the Shigella invasin IpaB.
10064581	Physical interactions among circadian clock proteins KaiA, KaiB and KaiC in cyanobacteria.	The kai gene cluster, which is composed of three genes, kaiA, kaiB and kaiC, is essential for the generation of circadian rhythms in the unicellular cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. strain PCC 7942. Here we demonstrate the direct association of KaiA, KaiB and KaiC in yeast cells using the two-hybrid system, in vitro and in cyanobacterial cells. KaiC enhanced KaiA-KaiB interaction in vitro and in yeast cells, suggesting that the three Kai proteins were able to form a heteromultimeric complex. We also found that a long period mutation kaiA1 dramatically enhanced KaiA-KaiB interaction in vitro. Thus, direct protein-protein association among the Kai proteins may be a critical process in the generation of circadian rhythms in cyanobacteria.
10075662	Activation of NF-kappaB by RANK requires tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) 6 and NF-kappaB-inducing kinase. Identification of a novel TRAF6 interaction motif.	Various members of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily activate nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) and the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathways through their interaction with TNF receptor-associated factors (TRAFs) and NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK). We have previously shown that the cytoplasmic domain of receptor activator of NF-kappaB (RANK) interacts with TRAF2, TRAF5, and TRAF6 and that its overexpression activates NF-kappaB and JNK pathways. Through a detailed mutational analysis of the cytoplasmic domain of RANK, we demonstrate that TRAF2 and TRAF5 bind to consensus TRAF binding motifs located in the C terminus at positions 565-568 and 606-611, respectively. In contrast, TRAF6 interacts with a novel motif located between residues 340 and 358 of RANK. Furthermore, transfection experiments with RANK and its deletion mutants in human embryonic 293 cells revealed that the TRAF6-binding region (340-358), but not the TRAF2 or TRAF5-binding region, is necessary and sufficient for RANK-induced NF-kappaB activation. Moreover, a kinase mutant of NIK (NIK-KM) inhibited RANK-induced NF-kappaB activation. However, RANK-mediated JNK activation required a distal portion (427-603) of RANK containing the TRAF2-binding domain. Thus, our results indicate that RANK interacts with various TRAFs through distinct motifs and activates NF-kappaB via a novel TRAF6 interaction motif, which then activates NIK, thus leading to NF-kappaB activation, whereas RANK most likely activates JNK through a TRAF2-interacting region in RANK.
10094049	The kinase TAK1 can activate the NIK-I kappaB as well as the MAP kinase cascade in the IL-1 signalling pathway.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a proinflammatory cytokine that has several effects in the inflammation process. When it binds to its cell-surface receptor, IL-1 initiates a signalling cascade that leads to activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB and is relayed through the protein TRAF6 and a succession of kinase enzymes, including NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK) and I kappaB kinases (IKKs). However, the molecular mechanism by which NIK is activated is not understood. Here we show that the MAPKK kinase TAK1 acts upstream of NIK in the IL-1-activated signalling pathway and that TAK1 associates with TRAF6 during IL-1 signalling. Stimulation of TAK1 causes activation of NF-kappaB, which is blocked by dominant-negative mutants of NIK, and an inactive TAK1 mutant prevents activation of NF-kappaB that is mediated by IL-1 but not by NIK. Activated TAK1 phosphorylates NIK, which stimulates IKK-alpha activity. Our results indicate that TAK1 links TRAF6 to the NIK-IKK cascade in the IL-1 signalling pathway.
10196197	The subcellular localization of SF2/ASF is regulated by direct interaction with SR protein kinases (SRPKs).	Serine/arginine-rich (SR) proteins play an important role in constitutive and alternative pre-mRNA splicing. The C-terminal arginine-serine domain of these proteins, such as SF2/ASF, mediates protein-protein interactions and is phosphorylated in vivo. Using glutathione S-transferase (GST)-SF2/ASF-affinity chromatography, the SF2/ASF kinase activity was co-purified from HeLa cells with a 95-kDa protein, which was recognized by an anti-SR protein kinase (SRPK) 1 monoclonal antibody. Recombinant SRPK1 and SRPK2 bound to and phosphorylated GST-SF2/ASF in vitro. Phosphopeptide mapping showed that identical sites were phosphorylated in the pull-down kinase reaction with HeLa extracts and by recombinant SRPKs. Epitope-tagged SF2/ASF transiently expressed in COS7 cells co-immunoprecipitated with SRPKs. Deletion analysis mapped the phosphorylation sites to a region containing an (Arg-Ser)8 repeat beginning at residue 204, and far-Western analysis showed that the region is required for binding of SRPKs to SF2/ASF. Further binding studies showed that SRPKs bound unphosphorylated SF2/ASF but did not bind phosphorylated SF2/ASF. Expression of an SRPK2 kinase-inactive mutant caused accumulation of SF2/ASF in the cytoplasm. These results suggest that the formation of complexes between SF2/ASF and SRPKs, which is influenced by the phosphorylation state of SF2/ASF, may have regulatory roles in the assembly and localization of this splicing factor.
10198631	The proapoptotic activity of the Bcl-2 family member Bim is regulated by interaction with the dynein motor complex.	Bcl-2 family members that have only a single Bcl-2 homology domain, BH3, are potent inducers of apoptosis, and some appear to play a critical role in developmentally programmed cell death. We examined the regulation of the proapoptotic activity of the BH3-only protein Bim. In healthy cells, most Bim molecules were bound to LC8 cytoplasmic dynein light chain and thereby sequestered to the microtubule-associated dynein motor complex. Certain apoptotic stimuli disrupted the interaction between LC8 and the dynein motor complex. This freed Bim to translocate together with LC8 to Bcl-2 and to neutralize its antiapoptotic activity. This process did not require caspase activity and therefore constitutes an initiating event in apoptosis signaling.
10202051	Mutations that cause the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome impair the interaction of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) with WASP interacting protein.	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked recessive disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia, eczema, immune deficiency, and a proclivity toward lymphoid malignancy. Lymphocytes of affected individuals show defects of activation, motility, and cytoskeletal structure. The disease gene encodes a 502-amino acid protein named the WAS protein (WASP). Studies have identified a number of important interactions that place WASP in a role of integrating signaling pathways with cytoskeletal function. We performed a two-hybrid screen to identify proteins interacting with WASP and cloned a proline-rich protein as a specific WASP interactor. Our clone of this protein, termed WASP interacting protein (WIP) by others, shows a difference in seven amino acid residues, compared with the previously published sequence revealing an additional profilin binding motif. Deletion mutant analysis reveals that WASP residues 101-151 are necessary for WASP-WIP interaction. Point mutant analyses in the two-hybrid system and in vitro show impairment of WASP-WIP interaction with three WASP missense mutants known to cause WAS. We conclude that impaired WASP-WIP interaction may contribute to WAS.
10206961	An APAF-1.cytochrome c multimeric complex is a functional apoptosome that activates procaspase-9.	We report here the reconstitution of the de novo procaspase-9 activation pathway using highly purified cytochrome c, recombinant APAF-1, and recombinant procaspase-9. APAF-1 binds and hydrolyzes ATP or dATP to ADP or dADP, respectively. The hydrolysis of ATP/dATP and the binding of cytochrome c promote APAF-1 oligomerization, forming a large multimeric APAF-1.cytochrome c complex. Such a complex can be isolated using gel filtration chromatography and is by itself sufficient to recruit and activate procaspase-9. The stoichiometric ratio of procaspase-9 to APAF-1 is approximately 1 to 1 in the complex. Once activated, caspase-9 disassociates from the complex and becomes available to cleave and activate downstream caspases such as caspase-3.
10206962	Dibromopropanone cross-linking of the phosphopantetheine and active-site cysteine thiols of the animal fatty acid synthase can occur both inter- and intrasubunit. Reevaluation of the side-by-side, antiparallel subunit model.	The objective of this study was to test a new model for the homodimeric animal FAS which implies that the condensation reaction can be catalyzed by the amino-terminal beta-ketoacyl synthase domain in cooperation with the penultimate carboxyl-terminal acyl carrier protein domain of either subunit. Treatment of animal fatty acid synthase dimers with dibromopropanone generates three new molecular species with decreased electrophoretic mobilities; none of these species are formed by fatty acid synthase mutant dimers lacking either the active-site cysteine of the beta-ketoacyl synthase domain (C161A) or the phosphopantetheine thiol of the acyl carrier protein domain (S2151A). A double affinity-labeling strategy was used to isolate dimers that carried one or both mutations on one or both subunits; the heterodimers were treated with dibromopropanone and analyzed by a combination of sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, Western blotting, gel filtration, and matrix-assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry. Thus the two slowest moving of these species, which accounted for 45 and 15% of the total, were identified as doubly and singly cross-linked dimers, respectively, whereas the fastest moving species, which accounted for 35% of the total, was identified as originating from internally cross-linked subunits. These results show that the two polypeptides of the fatty acid synthase are oriented such that head-to-tail contacts are formed both between and within subunits, and provide the first structural evidence in support of the new model.
10212252	Flotillins/cavatellins are differentially expressed in cells and tissues and form a hetero-oligomeric complex with caveolins in vivo. Characterization and epitope-mapping of a novel flotillin-1 monoclonal antibody probe.	Caveolae are vesicular organelles that represent a subcompartment of the plasma membrane. Caveolins and flotillins are two families of mammalian caveolae-associated integral membrane proteins. However, it remains unknown whether flotillins interact with caveolin proteins to form a stable caveolar complex or if expression of flotillins can drive vesicle formation. Here, we examine the cell type and tissue-specific expression of the flotillin gene family. For this purpose, we generated a novel monoclonal antibody probe that recognizes only flotillin-1. A survey of cell and tissue types demonstrates that flotillins 1 and 2 have a complementary tissue distribution. At the cellular level, flotillin-2 was ubiquitously expressed, whereas flotillin-1 was most abundant in A498 kidney cells, muscle cell lines, and fibroblasts. Using three different models of cellular differentiation, we next examined the expression of flotillins 1 and 2. Taken together, our data suggest that the expression levels of flotillins 1 and 2 are independently regulated and does not strictly correlate with known expression patterns of caveolin family members. However, when caveolins and flotillins are co-expressed within the same cell, as in A498 cells, they form a stable hetero-oligomeric "caveolar complex." In support of these observations, we show that heterologous expression of murine flotillin-1 in Sf21 insect cells using baculovirus-based vectors is sufficient to drive the formation of caveolae-like vesicles. These results suggest that flotillins may participate functionally in the formation of caveolae or caveolae-like vesicles in vivo. Thus, flotillin-1 represents a new integral membrane protein marker for the slightly larger caveolae-related domains (50-200 nm) that are observed in cell types that fail to express caveolin-1. As a consequence of these findings, we propose the term "cavatellins" be used (instead of flotillins) to describe this gene family.
10230800	A dynamically regulated 14-3-3, Slob, and Slowpoke potassium channel complex in Drosophila presynaptic nerve terminals.	Slob is a novel protein that binds to the carboxy-terminal domain of the Drosophila Slowpoke (dSlo) calcium-dependent potassium (K(Ca)) channel. A yeast two-hybrid screen with Slob as bait identifies the zeta isoform of 14-3-3 as a Slob-binding protein. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments from Drosophila heads and transfected cells confirm that 14-3-3 interacts with dSlo via Slob. All three proteins are colocalized presynaptically at Drosophila neuromuscular junctions. Two serine residues in Slob are required for 14-3-3 binding, and the binding is dynamically regulated in Drosophila by calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) phosphorylation. 14-3-3 coexpression dramatically alters dSlo channel properties when wild-type Slob is present but not when a double serine mutant Slob that is incapable of binding 14-3-3 is present. The results provide evidence for a dSlo/Slob/14-3-3 regulatory protein complex.
10234050	Simultaneous binding of two protein kinases to a calcium-dependent potassium channel.	Large-conductance calcium-dependent potassium channels are subject to modulation by protein kinases, phosphatases, and other signaling proteins, and it has been inferred from electrophysiological experiments that signaling proteins sometimes can be intimately associated with these channels in a regulatory complex. We show here that endogenous protein kinase activity coimmunoprecipitates with both native and recombinant Drosophila Slowpoke (dSlo) calcium-dependent potassium channels. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments using antibodies against several protein kinases demonstrate that dSlo can bind simultaneously to the Src tyrosine kinase and to the catalytic subunit of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKAc). Both kinases can phosphorylate the channel in Drosophila heads and in heterologous host cells. The PKAc binds directly to a 172-amino acid region in the C-terminal domain of dSlo, without the intervention of regulatory subunits or anchoring proteins, and channel phosphorylation by PKAc is not required for this binding interaction. In contrast, several phosphorylatable tyrosine residues in dSlo are important for Src binding. The results are consistent with the idea that an ion channel can act as a scaffold for its own specific set of modulatory enzymes.
10318773	A newly identified member of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily (TR6) suppresses LIGHT-mediated apoptosis.	TR6 (decoy receptor 3 (DcR3)) is a new member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) family. TR6 mRNA is expressed in lung tissues and colon adenocarcinoma, SW480. In addition, the expression of TR6 mRNA was shown in the endothelial cell line and induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate/ionomycin in Jurkat T leukemia cells. The open reading frame of TR6 encodes 300 amino acids with a 29-residue signal sequence but no transmembrane region. Using histidine-tagged recombinant TR6, we screened soluble forms of TNF-ligand proteins with immunoprecipitation. Here, we demonstrate that TR6 specifically binds two cellular ligands, LIGHT (herpes virus entry mediator (HVEM)-L) and Fas ligand (FasL/CD95L). These bindings were confirmed with HEK 293 EBNA cells transfected with LIGHT cDNA by flow cytometry. TR6 inhibited LIGHT-induced cytotoxicity in HT29 cells. It has been shown that LIGHT triggers apoptosis of various tumor cells including HT29 cells that express both lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTbetaR) and HVEM/TR2 receptors. Our data suggest that TR6 inhibits the interactions of LIGHT with HVEM/TR2 and LTbetaR, thereby suppressing LIGHT- mediated HT29 cell death. Thus, TR6 may play a regulatory role for suppressing in FasL- and LIGHT-mediated cell death.
10348744	PKS1, a substrate phosphorylated by phytochrome that modulates light signaling in Arabidopsis.	Plants constantly monitor their light environment in order to grow and develop optimally, in part through use of the phytochromes, which sense red/far-red light. A phytochrome binding protein, PKS1 (phytochrome kinase substrate 1), was identified that is a substrate for light-regulated phytochrome kinase activity in vitro. In vivo experiments suggest that PKS1 is phosphorylated in a phytochrome-dependent manner and negatively regulates phytochrome signaling. The data suggest that phytochromes signal by serine-threonine phosphorylation.
10358057	Cloning and characterization of ATRAP, a novel protein that interacts with the angiotensin II type 1 receptor.	The carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic domain of the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor has recently been shown to interact with several classes of cytoplasmic proteins that regulate different aspects of AT1 receptor physiology. Employing yeast two-hybrid screening of a mouse kidney cDNA library with the carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic domain of the murine AT1a receptor as a bait, we have isolated a novel protein with a predicted molecular mass of 18 kDa, which we have named ATRAP (for AT1 receptor-associated protein). ATRAP interacts specifically with the carboxyl-terminal domain of the AT1a receptor but not with those of angiotensin II type 2 (AT2), m3 muscarinic acetylcholine, bradykinin B2, endothelin B, and beta2-adrenergic receptors. The mRNA of ATRAP was abundantly expressed in kidney, heart, and testis but was poorly expressed in lung, liver, spleen, and brain. The ATRAP-AT1a receptor association was confirmed by affinity chromatography, by specific co-immunoprecipitation of the two proteins, and by fluorescence microscopy, showing co-localization of these proteins in intact cells. Overexpression of ATRAP in COS-7 cells caused a marked inhibition of AT1a receptor-mediated activation of phospholipase C without affecting m3 receptor-mediated activation. In conclusion, we have isolated a novel protein that interacts specifically with the carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic domain of the AT1a receptor and affects AT1a receptor signaling.
10360578	Structure of Cdc42 in complex with the GTPase-binding domain of the 'Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome' protein.	The Rho-family GTP-hydrolysing proteins (GTPases), Cdc42, Rac and Rho, act as molecular switches in signalling pathways that regulate cytoskeletal architecture, gene expression and progression of the cell cycle. Cdc42 and Rac transmit many signals through GTP-dependent binding to effector proteins containing a Cdc42/Rac-interactive-binding (CRIB) motif. One such effector, the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP), is postulated to link activation of Cdc42 directly to the rearrangement of actin. Human mutations in WASP cause severe defects in haematopoletic cell function, leading to clinical symptoms of thrombocytopenia, immunodeficiency and eczema. Here we report the solution structure of a complex between activated Cdc42 and a minimal GTPase-binding domain (GBD) from WASP. An extended amino-terminal GBD peptide that includes the CRIB motif contacts the switch I, beta2 and alpha5 regions of Cdc42. A carboxy-terminal beta-hairpin and alpha-helix pack against switch II. The Phe-X-His-X2-His portion of the CRIB motif and the alpha-helix appear to mediate sensitivity to the nucleotide switch through contacts to residues 36-40 of Cdc42. Discrimination between the Rho-family members is likely to be governed by GBD contacts to the switch I and alpha5 regions of the GTPases. Structural and biochemical data suggest that GBD-sequence divergence outside the CRIB motif may reflect additional regulatory interactions with functional domains that are specific to individual effectors.
10360579	Structure of the small G protein Cdc42 bound to the GTPase-binding domain of ACK.	The proteins Cdc42 and Rac are members of the Rho family of small GTPases (G proteins), which control signal-transduction pathways that lead to rearrangements of the cell cytoskeleton, cell differentiation and cell proliferation. They do so by binding to downstream effector proteins. Some of these, known as CRIB (for Cdc42/Rac interactive-binding) proteins, bind to both Cdc42 and Rac, such as the PAK1-3 serine/threonine kinases, whereas others are specific for Cdc42, such as the ACK tyrosine kinases and the Wiscott-Aldrich-syndrome proteins (WASPs). The effector loop of Cdc42 and Rac (comprising residues 30-40, also called switch I), is one of two regions which change conformation on exchange of GDP for GTP. This region is almost identical in Cdc42 and Racs, indicating that it does not determine the specificity of these G proteins. Here we report the solution structure of the complex of Cdc42 with the GTPase-binding domain ofACK. Both proteins undergo significant conformational changes on binding, to form a new type of G-protein/effector complex. The interaction extends the beta-sheet in Cdc42 by binding an extended strand from ACK, as seen in Ras/effector interactions, but it also involves other regions of the G protein that are important for determining the specificity of effector binding.
10373438	Functional and physical interaction between WRN helicase and human replication protein A.	The human premature aging disorder Werner syndrome (WS) is associated with a large number of symptoms displayed in normal aging. The WRN gene product, a DNA helicase, has been previously shown to unwind short DNA duplexes (</=53 base pairs) in a reaction stimulated by single-stranded DNA-binding proteins. We have studied the helicase activity of purified WRN protein on a variety of DNA duplex substrates to characterize the unwinding properties of the enzyme in greater detail. WRN helicase can catalyze unwinding of long duplex DNA substrates up to 849 base pairs in a reaction dependent on human replication protein A (hRPA). Escherichia coli SSB and bacteriophage T4 gene 32 protein (gp32) completely failed to stimulate WRN helicase to unwind long DNA duplexes indicating a specific functional interaction between WRN and hRPA. So far, there have been no reports of any physical interactions between WRN helicase and other proteins. In support of the functional interaction, we demonstrate a direct interaction between WRN and hRPA by coimmunoprecipitation of purified proteins. The physical and functional interaction between WRN and hRPA suggests that the two proteins may function together in vivo in a pathway of DNA metabolism such as replication, recombination, or repair.
10373560	Overproduction of human Myt1 kinase induces a G2 cell cycle delay by interfering with the intracellular trafficking of Cdc2-cyclin B1 complexes.	The Myt1 protein kinase functions to negatively regulate Cdc2-cyclin B complexes by phosphorylating Cdc2 on threonine 14 and tyrosine 15. Throughout interphase, human Myt1 localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex, whereas Cdc2-cyclin B1 complexes shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Here we report that overproduction of either kinase-active or kinase-inactive forms of Myt1 blocked the nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling of cyclin B1 and caused cells to delay in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. The COOH-terminal 63 amino acids of Myt1 were identified as a Cdc2-cyclin B1 interaction domain. Myt1 mutants lacking this domain no longer bound cyclin B1 and did not efficiently phosphorylate Cdc2-cyclin B1 complexes in vitro. In addition, cells overproducing mutant forms of Myt1 lacking the interaction domain exhibited normal trafficking of cyclin B1 and unperturbed cell cycle progression. These results suggest that the docking of Cdc2-cyclin B1 complexes to the COOH terminus of Myt1 facilitates the phosphorylation of Cdc2 by Myt1 and that overproduction of Myt1 perturbs cell cycle progression by sequestering Cdc2-cyclin B1 complexes in the cytoplasm.
10398681	Identification of an SCF ubiquitin-ligase complex required for auxin response in Arabidopsis thaliana.	The plant hormone auxin regulates diverse aspects of plant growth and development. We report that in Arabidopsis, auxin response is dependent on a ubiquitin-ligase (E3) complex called SCFTIR1. The complex consists of proteins related to yeast Skp1p and Cdc53p called ASK and AtCUL1, respectively, as well as the F-box protein TIR1. Mutations in either ASK1 or TIR1 result in decreased auxin response. Further, overexpression of TIR1 promotes auxin response suggesting that SCFTIR1 is limiting for the response. These results provide new support for a model in which auxin action depends on the regulated proteolysis of repressor proteins.
10404183	Interactions between beta 2-syntrophin and a family of microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinases.	A screen for proteins that interact with beta 2-syntrophin led to the isolation of MAST205 (microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinase-205 kD) and a newly identified homologue, SAST (syntrophin-associated serine/threonine kinase). Binding studies showed that beta 2-syntrophin and MAST205/SAST associated via a PDZ-PDZ domain interaction. MAST205 colocalized with beta 2-syntrophin and utrophin at neuromuscular junctions. SAST colocalized with syntrophin in cerebral vasculature, spermatic acrosomes and neuronal processes. SAST and syntrophin were highly associated with purified microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins, whereas utrophin and dystrophin were only partially associated with microtubules. Our data suggest that MAST205 and SAST link the dystrophin/utrophin network with microtubule filaments via the syntrophins.
10406807	PLENA and FARINELLI: redundancy and regulatory interactions between two Antirrhinum MADS-box factors controlling flower development.	We report the discovery of an Antirrhinum MADS-box gene, FARINELLI (FAR), and the isolation of far mutants by a reverse genetic screen. Despite striking similarities between FAR and the class C MADS-box gene PLENA (PLE), the phenotypes of their respective mutants are dramatically different. Unlike ple mutants, which show homeotic conversion of reproductive organs to perianth organs and a loss of floral determinacy, far mutants have normal flowers which are partially male-sterile. Expression studies of PLE and FAR, in wild-type and mutant backgrounds, show complex interactions between the two genes. Double mutant analysis reveals an unexpected, redundant negative control over the B-function MADS-box genes. This feature of the two Antirrhinum C-function-like genes is markedly different from the control of the inner boundary of the B-function expression domain in Arabidopsis, and we propose and discuss a model to account for these differences. The difference in phenotypes of mutants in two highly related genes illustrates the importance of the position within the regulatory network in determining gene function.
10409726	Myb-related fission yeast cdc5p is a component of a 40S snRNP-containing complex and is essential for pre-mRNA splicing.	Myb-related cdc5p is required for G(2)/M progression in the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. We report here that all detectable cdc5p is stably associated with a multiprotein 40S complex. Immunoaffinity purification has allowed the identification of 10 cwf (complexed with cdc5p) proteins. Two (cwf6p and cwf10p) are members of the U5 snRNP; one (cwf9p) is a core snRNP protein. cwf8p is the apparent ortholog of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae splicing factor Prp19p. cwf1(+) is allelic to the prp5(+) gene defined by the S. pombe splicing mutant, prp5-1, and there is a strong negative genetic interaction between cdc5-120 and prp5-1. Five cwfs have not been recognized previously as important for either pre-mRNA splicing or cell cycle control. Further characterization of cwf1p, cwf2p, cwf3p, and cwf4p demonstrates that they are encoded by essential genes, cosediment with cdc5p at 40S, and coimmunoprecipitate with cdc5p. We further show that cdc5p associates with the U2, U5, and U6 snRNAs and that cells lacking cdc5(+) function are defective in pre-mRNA splicing. These data raise the possibility that the cdc5p complex is an intermediate in the assembly or disassembly of an active S. pombe spliceosome.
10437794	p68 Sam is a substrate of the insulin receptor and associates with the SH2 domains of p85 PI3K.	The 68 kDa Src substrate associated during mitosis is an RNA binding protein with Src homology 2 and 3 domain binding sites. A role for Src associated in mitosis 68 as an adaptor protein in signaling transduction has been proposed in different systems such as T-cell receptors. In the present work, we have sought to assess the possible role of Src associated in mitosis 68 in insulin receptor signaling. We performed in vivo studies in HTC-IR cells and in vitro studies using recombinant Src associated in mitosis 68, purified insulin receptor and fusion proteins containing either the N-terminal or the C-terminal Src homology 2 domain of p85 phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase. We have found that Src associated in mitosis 68 is a substrate of the insulin receptor both in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, tyrosine-phosphorylated Src associated in mitosis 68 was found to associate with p85 phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase in response to insulin, as assessed by co-immunoprecipitation studies. Therefore, Src associated in mitosis 68 may be part of the signaling complexes of insulin receptor along with p85. In vitro studies demonstrate that Src associated in mitosis 68 associates with the Src homology 2 domains of p85 after tyrosine phosphorylation by the activated insulin receptor. Moreover, tyr-phosphorylated Src associated in mitosis 68 binds with a higher affinity to the N-terminal Src homology 2 domain of p85 compared to the C-terminal Src homology 2 domain of p85, suggesting a preferential association of Src associated in mitosis 68 with the N-terminal Src homology 2 domain of p85. This association may be important for the link of the signaling with RNA metabolism.
10438536	Exo84p is an exocyst protein essential for secretion.	The exocyst is a multiprotein complex that plays an important role in secretory vesicle targeting and docking at the plasma membrane. Here we report the identification and characterization of a new component of the exocyst, Exo84p, in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Yeast cells depleted of Exo84p cannot survive. These cells are defective in invertase secretion and accumulate vesicles similar to those in the late sec mutants. Exo84p co-immunoprecipitates with the exocyst components, and a portion of the Exo84p co-sediments with the exocyst complex in velocity gradients. The assembly of Exo84p into the exocyst complex requires two other subunits, Sec5p and Sec10p. Exo84p interacts with both Sec5p and Sec10p in a two-hybrid assay. Overexpression of Exo84p selectively suppresses the temperature sensitivity of a sec5 mutant. Exo84p specifically localizes to the bud tip or mother/daughter connection, sites of polarized secretion in the yeast S. cerevisiae. Exo84p is mislocalized in a sec5 mutant. These studies suggest that Exo84p is an essential protein that plays an important role in polarized secretion.
10444103	Determination of the motif responsible for interaction between the rice APETALA1/AGAMOUS-LIKE9 family proteins using a yeast two-hybrid system.	A MADS family gene, OsMADS6, was isolated from a rice (Oryza sativa L.) young flower cDNA library using OsAMDS1 as a probe. With this clone, various MADS box genes that encode for protein-to-protein interaction partners of the OsMADS6 protein were isolated by the yeast two-hybrid screening method. On the basis of sequence homology, OsMADS6 and the selected partners can be classified in the APETALA1/AGAMOUS-LIKE9 (AP1/AGL9) family. One of the interaction partners, OsMADS14, was selected for further study. Both genes began expression at early stages of flower development, and their expression was extended into the later stages. In mature flowers the OsMADS6 transcript was detectable in lodicules and also weakly in sterile lemmas and carpels, whereas the OsMADS14 transcript was detectable in sterile lemmas, paleas/lemmas, stamens, and carpels. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we demonstrated that the region containing of the 109th to 137th amino acid residues of OsMADS6 is indispensable in the interaction with OsMADS14. Site-directed mutation analysis revealed that the four periodical leucine residues within the region are essential for this interaction. Furthermore, it was shown that the 14 amino acid residues located immediately downstream of the K domain enhance the interaction, and that the two leucine residues within this region play an important role in that enhancement.
10455177	The carboxyl terminal extension of the Drosophila insulin receptor homologue binds IRS-1 and influences cell survival.	The Drosophila insulin receptor (INR) homolog includes an extension of approximately 400 amino acids at the carboxyl-terminal end of its beta subunit containing several tyrosine-based motifs known to mediate interactions with signaling proteins. In order to explore the role of this extension in INR function, mammalian expression vectors encoding either the complete INR beta subunit (beta-Myc) or the INR beta subunit without the carboxyl-terminal extension (betaDelta) were constructed, and the membrane-bound beta subunits were expressed in 293 and Madin-Darby canine kidney cells in the absence of the ligand-binding alpha subunits. beta-Myc and betaDelta proteins were constitutively active tyrosine kinases of 180 and 102 kDa, respectively. INR beta-Myc co-immunoprecipitated a phosphoprotein of 170 kDa identified as insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), whereas INR betaDelta did not, suggesting that the site of interaction was within the carboxyl-terminal extension. IRS-1 was phosphorylated on tyrosine to a much greater extent in cells expressing INR beta-Myc than in parental or INR betaDelta cells. Despite this, a variety of PTB or SH2 domain-containing signaling proteins, including IRS-2, mSos-1, Shc, p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, SHP-2, Raf-1, and JAK2, were not associated with the INR beta-Myc.IRS-1 complex. Overexpression of INR beta-Myc and betaDelta kinases conferred an equivalent increase in cell proliferation in both 293 and Madin-Darby canine kidney cells, indicating that this growth response is independent of the carboxyl-terminal extension. However, INR beta-Myc-expressing cells exhibited enhanced survival relative to parental and betaDelta cells, suggesting that the carboxyl-terminal extension, through its interaction with IRS-1, plays a role in the regulation of cell death.
10463949	Death deflected: IL-15 inhibits TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis in fibroblasts by TRAF2 recruitment to the IL-15Ralpha chain.	Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is a potent inhibitor of several apoptosis pathways. One prominent path toward apoptosis is the ligand-induced association of TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1) with death domain adaptor proteins. Studying if and how IL-15 blocks TNFR1-mediated apoptosis in a murine fibroblast cell line (L929), we show here that IL-15 blocks TNFR1-induced apoptosis via IL-15Ralpha chain signaling. The intracellular tail of IL-15Ralpha shows sequence homologies to the TRAF2 binding motifs of CD30 and CD40. Most important, binding of IL-15 to IL-15Ralpha successfully competes with the TNFR1 complex for TRAF2 binding, which may impede assembly of key adaptor proteins to the TNFR1 complex, and induces IkappaBalpha phosphorylation. Thus, IL-15Ralpha chain stimulation is a powerful deflector of cell death very early in the apoptosis signaling cascade, while TNF-alpha and IL-15 surface as major opponents in apoptosis control.
10465784	ECSIT is an evolutionarily conserved intermediate in the Toll/IL-1 signal transduction pathway.	Activation of NF-kappaB as a consequence of signaling through the Toll and IL-1 receptors is a major element of innate immune responses. We report the identification and characterization of a novel intermediate in these signaling pathways that bridges TRAF6 to MEKK-1. This adapter protein, which we have named ECSIT (evolutionarily conserved signaling intermediate in Toll pathways), is specific for the Toll/IL-1 pathways and is a regulator of MEKK-1 processing. Expression of wild-type ECSIT accelerates processing of MEKK-1, whereas a dominant-negative fragment of ECSIT blocks MEKK-1 processing and activation of NF-kappaB. These results indicate an important role for ECSIT in signaling to NF-kappaB and suggest that processing of MEKK-1 is required for its function in the Toll/IL-1 pathway.
10481910	The Drosophila caspase inhibitor DIAP1 is essential for cell survival and is negatively regulated by HID.	Drosophila Reaper (RPR), Head Involution Defective (HID), and GRIM induce caspase-dependent cell death and physically interact with the cell death inhibitor DIAP1. Here we show that HID blocks DIAP1's ability to inhibit caspase activity and provide evidence suggesting that RPR and GRIM can act similarly. Based on these results, we propose that RPR, HID, and GRIM promote apoptosis by disrupting productive IAP-caspase interactions and that DIAP1 is required to block apoptosis-inducing caspase activity. Supporting this hypothesis, we show that elimination of DIAP1 function results in global early embryonic cell death and a large increase in DIAP1-inhibitable caspase activity and that DIAP1 is still required for cell survival when expression of rpr, hid, and grim is eliminated.
10512884	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae homologue of human Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein Las17p interacts with the Arp2/3 complex.	Yeast Las17 protein is homologous to the Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome protein, which is implicated in severe immunodeficiency. Las17p/Bee1p has been shown to be important for actin patch assembly and actin polymerization. Here we show that Las17p interacts with the Arp2/3 complex. LAS17 is an allele-specific multicopy suppressor of ARP2 and ARP3 mutations; overexpression restores both actin patch organization and endocytosis defects in ARP2 temperature-sensitive (ts) cells. Six of seven ARP2 ts mutants and at least one ARP3 ts mutant are synthetically lethal with las17Delta ts confirming functional interaction with the Arp2/3 complex. Further characterization of las17Delta cells showed that receptor-mediated internalization of alpha factor by the Ste2 receptor is severely defective. The polarity of normal bipolar bud site selection is lost. Las17-gfp remains localized in cortical patches in vivo independently of polymerized actin and is required for the polarized localization of Arp2/3 as well as actin. Coimmunoprecipitation of Arp2p with Las17p indicates that Las17p interacts directly with the complex. Two hybrid results also suggest that Las17p interacts with actin, verprolin, Rvs167p and several other proteins including Src homology 3 (SH3) domain proteins, suggesting that Las17p may integrate signals from different regulatory cascades destined for the Arp2/3p complex and the actin cytoskeleton.
10521526	Arabidopsis cop8 and fus4 mutations define the same gene that encodes subunit 4 of the COP9 signalosome.	The pleiotropic constitutive photomorphogenic/deetiolated/fusca (cop/det/fus) mutants of Arabidopsis exhibit features of light-grown seedlings when grown in the dark. Cloning and biochemical analysis of COP9 have revealed that it is a component of a multiprotein complex, the COP9 signalosome (previously known as the COP9 complex). Here, we compare the immunoaffinity and the biochemical purification of the COP9 signalosome from cauliflower and confirm its eight-subunit composition. Molecular cloning of subunit 4 of the complex revealed that it is a proteasome-COP9 complex-eIF3 domain protein encoded by a gene that maps to chromosome 5, near the chromosomal location of the cop8 and fus4 mutations. Genetic complementation tests showed that the cop8 and fus4 mutations define the same locus, now designated as COP8. Molecular analysis of the subunit 4-encoding gene in both cop8 and fus4 mutants identified specific molecular lesions, and overexpression of the subunit 4 cDNA in a cop8 mutant background resulted in complete rescue of the mutant phenotype. Thus, we conclude that COP8 encodes subunit 4 of the COP9 signalosome. Examination of possible molecular interactions by using the yeast two-hybrid assay indicated that COP8 is capable of strong self-association as well as interaction with COP9, FUS6/COP11, FUS5, and Arabidopsis JAB1 homolog 1, the latter four proteins being previously defined subunits of the Arabidopsis COP9 signalosome. A comparative sequence analysis indicated that COP8 is highly conserved among multicellular eukaryotes and is also similar to a subunit of the 19S regulatory particle of the 26S proteasome.
10524631	Phytochrome signalling is mediated through nucleoside diphosphate kinase 2.	Because plants are sessile, they have developed intricate strategies to adapt to changing environmental variables, including light. Their growth and development, from germination to flowering, is critically influenced by light, particularly at red (660 nm) and far-red (730 nm) wavelengths. Higher plants perceive red and far-red light by means of specific light sensors called phytochromes(A-E). However, very little is known about how light signals are transduced to elicit responses in plants. Here we report that nucleoside diphosphate kinase 2 (NDPK2) is an upstream component in the phytochrome signalling pathway in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana. In animal and human cells, NDPK acts as a tumour suppressor. We show that recombinant NDPK2 in Arabidopsis preferentially binds to the red-light-activated form of phytochrome in vitro and that this interaction increases the activity of recombinant NDPK2. Furthermore, a mutant lacking NDPK2 showed a partial defect in responses to both red and farred light, including cotyledon opening and greening. These results indicate that NDPK2 is a positive signalling component of the phytochrome-mediated light-signal-transduction pathway in Arabidopsis.
10562279	PEX12 interacts with PEX5 and PEX10 and acts downstream of receptor docking in peroxisomal matrix protein import.	Peroxisomal matrix protein import requires PEX12, an integral peroxisomal membrane protein with a zinc ring domain at its carboxy terminus. Mutations in human PEX12 result in Zellweger syndrome, a lethal neurological disorder, and implicate the zinc ring domain in PEX12 function. Using two-hybrid studies, blot overlay assays, and coimmunoprecipitation experiments, we observed that the zinc-binding domain of PEX12 binds both PEX5, the PTS1 receptor, and PEX10, another integral peroxisomal membrane protein required for peroxisomal matrix protein import. Furthermore, we identified a patient with a missense mutation in the PEX12 zinc-binding domain, S320F, and observed that this mutation reduces the binding of PEX12 to PEX5 and PEX10. Overexpression of either PEX5 or PEX10 can suppress this PEX12 mutation, providing genetic evidence that these interactions are biologically relevant. PEX5 is a predominantly cytoplasmic protein and previous PEX5-binding proteins have been implicated in docking PEX5 to the peroxisome surface. However, we find that loss of PEX12 or PEX10 does not reduce the association of PEX5 with peroxisomes, demonstrating that these peroxins are not required for receptor docking. These and other results lead us to propose that PEX12 and PEX10 play direct roles in peroxisomal matrix protein import downstream of the receptor docking event.
10567532	Direct binding and In vivo regulation of the fission yeast p21-activated kinase shk1 by the SH3 domain protein scd2.	The Ste20/p21-activated kinase homolog Shk1 is essential for viability and required for normal morphology, mating, and cell cycle control in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Shk1 is regulated by the p21 G protein Cdc42, which has been shown to form a complex with the SH3 domain protein Scd2 (also called Ral3). In this study, we investigated whether Scd2 plays a role in regulating Shk1 function. We found that recombinant Scd2 and Shk1 interact directly in vitro and that they interact in vivo, as determined by the two-hybrid assay and genetic analyses in fission yeast. The second of two N-terminal SH3 domains of Scd2 is both necessary and sufficient for interaction with Shk1. While full-length Scd2 interacted with only the R1 N-terminal regulatory subdomain of Shk1, a C-terminal deletion mutant of Scd2 interacted with both the R1 and R3 subdomains of Shk1, suggesting that the non-SH3 C-terminal domain of Scd2 may be involved in defining specificity in SH3 binding domain recognition. Overexpression of Scd2 stimulated the autophosphorylation activity of wild-type Shk1 in fission yeast but, consistent with results of genetic analyses, did not stimulate the activity of a Shk1 protein lacking the R1 subdomain. Results of additional two-hybrid experiments suggest that Scd2 may stimulate Shk1 catalytic function, at least in part, by positively modulating protein-protein interaction between Cdc42 and Shk1. We propose that Scd2 functions as an organizing center, or scaffold, for the Cdc42 complex in fission yeast and that it acts in concert with Cdc42 to positively regulate Shk1 function.
10581243	NF-kappaB activation by a signaling complex containing TRAF2, TANK and TBK1, a novel IKK-related kinase.	The activation of NF-kappaB by receptors in the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor and Toll/interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor families requires the TRAF family of adaptor proteins. Receptor oligomerization causes the recruitment of TRAFs to the receptor complex, followed by the activation of a kinase cascade that results in the phosphorylation of IkappaB. TANK is a TRAF-binding protein that can inhibit the binding of TRAFs to receptor tails and can also inhibit NF-kappaB activation by these receptors. However, TANK also displays the ability to stimulate TRAF-mediated NF-kappaB activation. In this report, we investigate the mechanism of the stimulatory activity of TANK. We find that TANK interacts with TBK1 (TANK-binding kinase 1), a novel IKK-related kinase that can activate NF-kappaB in a kinase-dependent manner. TBK1, TANK and TRAF2 can form a ternary complex, and complex formation appears to be required for TBK1 activity. Kinase-inactive TBK1 inhibits TANK-mediated NF-kappaB activation but does not block the activation mediated by TNF-alpha, IL-1 or CD40. The TBK1-TANK-TRAF2 signaling complex functions upstream of NIK and the IKK complex and represents an alternative to the receptor signaling complex for TRAF-mediated activation of NF-kappaB.
10601321	Tic40, a new "old" subunit of the chloroplast protein import translocon.	The protein import translocon at the inner envelope of chloroplasts (Tic complex) is a heteroligomeric multisubunit complex. Here, we describe Tic40 from pea as a new component of this complex. Tic40 from pea is a homologue of a protein described earlier from Brassica napus as Cim/Com44 or the Toc36 subunit of the translocon at the outer envelope of chloroplasts, respectively (Wu, C., Seibert, F. S., and Ko, K. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 32264-32271; Ko, K., Budd, D., Wu, C., Seibert, F., Kourtz, L., and Ko, Z. W. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 28601-28608; Pang, P., Meathrel, K., and Ko, K. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 25623-25627). Tic40 can be covalently connected to Tic110 by the formation of a disulfide bridge under oxidizing conditions, indicating its close physical proximity to an established translocon component. The Tic40 protein is synthesized in the cytosol as a precursor with an N-terminal cleavable chloroplast targeting signal and imported into the organelle via the general import pathway. Immunoblotting and immunogold-labeling studies exclusively confine Tic40 to the chloroplastic inner envelope, in which it is anchored by a single putative transmembrane span.
1715582	Membrane glycoprotein IV (CD36) is physically associated with the Fyn, Lyn, and Yes protein-tyrosine kinases in human platelets.	Activation of platelets with thrombin and other agonists causes a rapid increase in the phosphorylation of multiple proteins on tyrosine. To identify candidate protein-tyrosine kinases (PTKs; EC 2.7.1.112) that may be responsible for these phosphorylation events, we analyzed the expression of seven Src-family PTKs and examined the association of these kinases with known platelet membrane glycoproteins. Five Src-related PTKs were detected in platelets: pp60SRC, pp60FYN, pp62YES, pp61HCK, and two LYN products of Mr 54,000 and 58,000. The Fgr and Lck PTKs were not detected. Although strict comparative quantification of protein levels was not possible, pp60SRC was detected at higher levels than any of the other kinases. In addition, glycoprotein IV (GPIV, CD36), one of the major platelet membrane glycoproteins, was associated in a complex with the Fyn, Yes, and Lyn proteins in platelet lysates. Similar complexes were also found in two GPIV-expressing cell lines, C32 melanoma cells and HEL cells. Since PTKs appear to be involved in stimulus-response coupling at the plasma membrane, these results suggest that ligand interaction with GPIV may activate signaling pathways that are triggered by tyrosine phosphorylation.
2159011	The role of human single-stranded DNA binding protein and its individual subunits in simian virus 40 DNA replication.	Human single-stranded DNA binding protein (human SSB) is a multisubunit protein containing polypeptides of 70, 34, and 11 kDa that is required for SV40 DNA replication in vitro. In this report we identify the functions of the SSB and its individual subunits in SV40 DNA replication. The 70 kDa subunit was found to bind to single-stranded DNA, whereas the other subunits did not. Four monoclonal antibodies against human SSB were isolated which inhibited SV40 DNA replication in vitro. The antibodies have been designated alpha SSB70A, alpha SSB70B, alpha SSB70C, and alpha SSB34A to indicate which subunits are recognized. Immunolocalization experiments indicated that human SSB is a nuclear protein. Human SSB is required for the SV40 large tumor antigen-catalyzed unwinding of SV40 DNA and stimulates DNA polymerases (pol) alpha and delta. The DNA unwinding reaction and stimulation of pol delta were blocked by alpha SSB70C, whereas the stimulation of pol alpha by human SSB was unaffected by this antibody. Conversely, alpha SSB70A, -70B, and -34A inhibited the stimulation of pol alpha, but they had no effect on DNA unwinding and pol delta stimulation. None of the antibodies inhibited the binding of SSB to single-stranded DNA. These results suggest that DNA unwinding and stimulation of pol alpha and pol delta are required functions of human SSB in SV40 DNA replication. The human SSB 70-kDa subunit appears to be required for DNA unwinding and pol delta stimulation, whereas both the 70- and 34-kDa subunits may be involved in the stimulation of pol alpha.
2467766	Detection of lysozyme and alpha 2-macroglobulin--lysozyme complexes by immunoblotting.	An immunoblotting technique was developed to detect human lysozyme and lysozyme complexes in body fluids. The unoccupied binding capacity of proteins was demonstrated by addition of surplus lysozyme. The sensitivity of immunoblotting to the free enzyme in human albumin solution was less than 5 ng. In serum and pleural fluid, part of exogenous lysozyme was bound to alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2-M). At high concentrations of lysozyme in leukemic sera, part of the enzyme formed an endogenous alpha 2-M complex. On the other hand, the formation of alpha 2-M complexes with exogenous lysozyme was especially striking in sera from nephrotic patients with elevated alpha 2-M. The findings corroborate with previous reports on lysozyme binding to purified alpha 2-M in vitro and suggest that the binding is concentration-dependent with respect to both reaction partners. In vivo the mechanism may provide a pathway for extrarenal lysozyme catabolism medicated by reticuloendothelial cells. No other binding proteins were seen in the present study: lysozyme did not bind to serum immunoglobulins in 35 samples with an immunoglobulin paraprotein, three samples with polyclonally elevated gamma-globulins, 20 other patient sera and 10 normal sera. Neither did lysozyme bind to urinary proteins in five samples from patients with myeloic leukemias nor in 10 samples from myeloma patients with urinary excretion of a monoclonal immunoglobulin light chain.
2790960	Functional independence of the epidermal growth factor receptor from a domain required for ligand-induced internalization and calcium regulation.	We have located the distal boundary of the tyrosine kinase domain of the EGF receptor and have identified a distinct sequence in the C' terminus required for EGF-dependent receptor internalization, leading to receptor down-regulation and degradation. Within this receptor domain, an 18 amino acid highly negatively charged region of predicted helical structure is required both for endocytosis via a high-affinity, saturable pathway and for ligand-stimulated increases in cytosolic calcium. In contrast to kinase-inactive, internalization-competent receptors, kinase-active, internalization-defective receptors effectively signaled gene transcription, morphological transformation, and growth. These observations support the hypothesis that mitogenic responses to EGF are mediated by activation of the intrinsic protein tyrosine kinase activity of the membrane-bound receptor, with ligand-induced internalization serving to terminate the signal.
2848815	Human tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor. Purification by immunoaffinity chromatography and initial characterization.	The receptor for human tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) was isolated from a subclone of the human histiocytic lymphoma cell line U937. These cells exhibit a single class of high affinity receptors (Kd = 0.51 +/- 0.25 nM) with an average density of 55,000 +/- 5,000 binding sites/cell. After solubilization with detergent, the receptor retained its ability to bind free TNF-alpha but failed to bind to TNF-alpha immobilized on various solid supports. For receptor purification, 125I-TNF-alpha was covalently attached to the receptor on intact cells by the bifunctional cross-linking reagents ethylene glycolbis(succinimidylsuccinate) or 3,3-dithiobis(sulfosuccinimidylpropionate). The cells were then solubilized with the nonionic detergent Triton X-100, and the supernatants, clarified by centrifugation, were passed over an IgG-Sepharose column prepared from TNF-alpha antiserum. The receptor-rich fraction from the antibody column was further purified by preparative sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. These two steps together provided approximately 165,000-fold purification of the TNF-alpha receptor. The TNF-alpha receptor-ligand complex obtained by this method had a subunit molecular weight of 100,000 +/- 5,000 when examined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis but on gel filtration the complex migrated with an apparent molecular weight of 480,000 +/- 32,000. However, the receptor showed a molecular weight of 65,000 +/- 32,000 when gel filtration was performed in the absence of ligand. Additional characteristics of the receptor are discussed.
3597357	Purification and properties of short chain acyl-CoA, medium chain acyl-CoA, and isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenases from human liver.	Short chain acyl-CoA (SCA), medium chain acyl-CoA (MCA), and isovaleryl-CoA (IV) dehydrogenases were purified to homogeneity from human liver using ammonium sulfate fractionation followed by DEAE-Sephadex A-50, hydroxyapatite, Matrex Gel Blue A, agarose-hexane-CoA, and Bio-Gel A-0.5 column chromatographies. The specific activities of the final preparations were enriched 507-, 750-, and 588-fold over those from the second ammonium sulfate fractionation step. The native molecular weights were estimated to be 168,000, 178,000, and 172,000, respectively, by gel filtration. Each of them exhibited, on sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, a single protein band with molecular weights of 41,000, 44,000, and 42,000, respectively, indicating a homotetrameric structure. UV/visual spectra, fluorescence spectra, and other evidence indicated that each contains 1 mol of FAD per subunit. They all utilized electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) or phenazine methosulfate (PMS) as an electron acceptor. The products of SCA dehydrogenase/butyryl-CoA, MCA dehydrogenase/octanoyl-CoA, and IV dehydrogenase/isovaleryl-CoA reactions were identified as crotonyl-CoA, 2-octenoyl-CoA, and 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA, respectively, using gas chromatography. Kinetic parameters Vappmax and Kappm) of these enzymes for various acyl-CoA substrates, as well as Kappm values for ETF and PMS are presented. In general, the substrate specificities of human SCA, MCA, and IV dehydrogenases are slightly less stringent than those of their rat counterparts and resemble those of their bovine and porcine counterparts. The pattern of substrate specificity for these enzymes determined using ETF as electron acceptor significantly differed from that determined using PMS. All of them were severely inhibited by (methylenecyclopropyl)acetyl-CoA.
7477295	Clustering of Shaker-type K+ channels by interaction with a family of membrane-associated guanylate kinases.	ANCHORING of ion channels at specific subcellular sites is critical for neuronal signalling, but the mechanisms underlying channel localization and clustering are largely unknown (reviewed in ref. 1). Voltage-gated K+ channels are concentrated in various neuronal domains, including presynaptic terminals, nodes of Ranvier and dendrites, where they regulate local membrane excitability. Here we present functional and biochemical evidence that cell-surface clustering of Shaker-subfamily K+ channels is mediated by the PSD-95 family of membrane-associated putative guanylate kinases, as a result of direct binding of the carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic tails to the K+ channel subunits to two PDZ (also known as GLGF or DHR) domains in the PSD-95 protein. The ability of PDZ domains to function as independent modules for protein-protein interaction, and their presence in other junction-associated molecules (such as ZO-1 (ref. 3) and syntrophin), suggest that PDZ-domain-containing polypeptides may be widely involved in the organization of proteins at sites of membrane specialization.
7527023	A novel RING finger protein interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of CD40.	CD40 is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family and, like other members, it appears to possess no intrinsic signaling capacity (e.g. kinase activity), suggesting that signal transduction is likely mediated by associating molecules. To identify such molecules, we have utilized the yeast two-hybrid system to clone cDNAs encoding proteins that bind the CD40 cytoplasmic domain. One such interacting protein, designated CD40-binding protein, has a N-terminal RING finger motif that is found in a number of DNA-binding proteins, including the V(D)J recombination activating gene RAG1. In addition, it contains a prominent central coiled-coil segment that may allow homo- or hetero-oligomerization. The C terminus possesses substantial homology to the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) domain that is found in two proteins (TRAF1 and TRAF2) that associate with the cytoplasmic domain of the related 75-kDa tumor necrosis factor receptor. This is the first identification of a molecule that interacts with CD40 and whose sequence suggests a potential role in signaling.
7536190	A novel protein that interacts with the death domain of Fas/APO1 contains a sequence motif related to the death domain.	Signaling for cell death by Fas/APO1 occurs via a distinct region in its intracellular domain. This region contains a conserved sequence motif, the death domain motif, that is also found in the intracellular domains of the p55 tumor necrosis factor receptor and the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor, as well as in the regulatory domain of the ankyrins. A novel protein that specifically binds to the death domain of Fas/APO1 but not to Fas/APO1 molecules with a loss of function point mutation occurring in lprcg mice was cloned by a two-hybrid screen of a HeLa cells' cDNA library. The cloned protein itself contains a death domain motif, and this region binds to the death domain of Fas/APO1, while the region upstream to the death domain prompts self-association of the protein. Induced expression of the protein results in ligand-independent triggering of cytotoxicity, suggesting that it is involved in cell death induction by Fas/APO1.
7538907	FADD, a novel death domain-containing protein, interacts with the death domain of Fas and initiates apoptosis.	Using the cytoplasmic domain of Fas in the yeast two-hybrid system, we have identified a novel interacting protein, FADD, which binds Fas and Fas-FD5, a mutant of Fas possessing enhanced killing activity, but not the functionally inactive mutants Fas-LPR and Fas-FD8. FADD contains a death domain homologous to the death domains of Fas and TNFR-1. A point mutation in FADD, analogous to the lpr mutation of Fas, abolishes its ability to bind Fas, suggesting a death domain to death domain interaction. Overexpression of FADD in MCF7 and BJAB cells induces apoptosis, which, like Fas-induced apoptosis, is blocked by CrmA, a specific inhibitor of the interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme. These findings suggest that FADD may play an important role in the proximal signal transduction of Fas.
7538908	RIP: a novel protein containing a death domain that interacts with Fas/APO-1 (CD95) in yeast and causes cell death.	Ligation of the extracellular domain of the cell surface receptor Fas/APO-1 (CD95) elicits a characteristic programmed death response in susceptible cells. Using a genetic selection based on protein-protein interaction in yeast, we have identified two gene products that associate with the intracellular domain of Fas: Fas itself, and a novel 74 kDa protein we have named RIP, for receptor interacting protein. RIP also interacts weakly with the p55 tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR1) intracellular domain, but not with a mutant version of Fas corresponding to the murine lprcg mutation. RIP contains an N-terminal region with homology to protein kinases and a C-terminal region containing a cytoplasmic motif (death domain) present in the Fas and TNFR1 intracellular domains. Transient overexpression of RIP causes transfected cells to undergo the morphological changes characteristic of apoptosis. Taken together, these properties indicate that RIP is a novel form of apoptosis-inducing protein.
7569905	Domain interaction between NMDA receptor subunits and the postsynaptic density protein PSD-95.	The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subserves synaptic glutamate-induced transmission and plasticity in central neurons. The yeast two-hybrid system was used to show that the cytoplasmic tails of NMDA receptor subunits interact with a prominent postsynaptic density protein PSD-95. The second PDZ domain in PSD-95 binds to the seven-amino acid, COOH-terminal domain containing the terminal tSXV motif (where S is serine, X is any amino acid, and V is valine) common to NR2 subunits and certain NR1 splice forms. Transcripts encoding PSD-95 are expressed in a pattern similar to that of NMDA receptors, and the NR2B subunit co-localizes with PSD-95 in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The interaction of these proteins may affect the plasticity of excitatory synapses.
7590250	Human TAFII250 interacts with RAP74: implications for RNA polymerase II initiation.	Accurate and regulated transcription by RNA polymerase II requires the assembly of an initiation complex involving multiple protein-DNA and protein-protein interactions. A key event is binding of TFIID, a complex consisting of TBP and associated factors (TAFs) to the template DNA. The TAF subunits of TFIID carry out diverse functions critical for transcription, including specific contact with enhancer proteins and binding to core promoter DNA. However, the role of TAFs in RNA polymerase II-mediated transcription initiation and cross talk with other basal factors remains poorly characterized. Here, we report the specific interaction of TAFII250 with RAP74, an essential subunit of the basal transcription factor IIF. Using various in vitro binding assays we have mapped recognition interfaces between TAFII250 and RAP74. In vivo complementation of a temperature-sensitive TAFII250 cell line reveals that the RAP74 interaction is critical for cell viability. Because TFIIF is thought to be responsible for binding and recruiting RNA polymerase II, the ability of TAFII250 to interact selectively with RAP74 is likely to contribute a critical contact for the assembly of an active transcription complex.
7630397	Mechanism of CDK activation revealed by the structure of a cyclinA-CDK2 complex.	The crystal structure of the human cyclinA-cyclin-dependent kinase2 (CDK2)-ATP complex has been determined at 2.3 A resolution. CyclinA binds to one side of CDK2's catalytic cleft, inducing large conformational changes in its PSTAIRE helix and T-loop. These changes activate the kinase by realigning active site residues and relieving the steric blockade at the entrance of the catalytic cleft.
7657591	Tyrosine phosphorylation of the c-cbl proto-oncogene protein product and association with epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor upon EGF stimulation.	The murine retroviral oncogene v-cbl induces pre-B cell lymphomas and myelogenous leukemias. The protein product of the mammalian c-cbl proto-oncogene is a widely expressed cytoplasmic 120-kDa protein (p120cbl) whose normal cellular function has not been determined. Here we show that upon stimulation of human epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor, p12ocbl becomes strongly tyrosine-phosphorylated and associates with activated EGF receptor in vivo. A GST fusion protein containing amino acids 1-486 of p120cbl, including a region highly conserved in nematodes, binds directly to the autophosphorylated carboxyl-terminal tail of the EGF receptor. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), or nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulation also results in tyrosine phosphorylation of p120cbl. Recent genetic studies in Caenorhabditis elegans indicate that Sli-1, a p120cbl homologue, plays a negative regulatory role in control of the Ras signaling pathway initiated by the C. elegans EGF receptor homologue. Our results indicate that p120cbl is involved in an early step in the EGF signaling pathway that is conserved from nematodes to mammals.
7673186	Lagging strand DNA synthesis at the eukaryotic replication fork involves binding and stimulation of FEN-1 by proliferating cell nuclear antigen.	The 5'-->3'-exonuclease domain of Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I is required for the completion of lagging strand DNA synthesis, and yet this domain is not present in any of the eukaryotic DNA polymerases. Recently, the gene encoding the functional and evolutionary equivalent of this 5'-->3'-exonuclease domain has been identified. It is called FEN-1 in mouse and human cells and RTH1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. This 42-kDa enzyme is required for Okazaki fragment processing. Here we report that FEN-1 physically interacts with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), the processivity factor for DNA polymerases delta and epsilon. Through protein-protein interactions, PCNA focuses FEN-1 on branched DNA substrates (flap structures) and on nicked DNA substrates, thereby stimulating its activity 10-50-fold but only if PCNA can functionally assemble as a toroidal trimer around the DNA. This interaction is important in the physical orchestration of lagging strand synthesis and may have implications for how PCNA stimulates other members of the FEN-1 nuclease family in a broad range of DNA metabolic transactions.
7680771	Cloning and expression of human TAFII250: a TBP-associated factor implicated in cell-cycle regulation.	Basal transcription by human RNA polymerase II requires the coordinate action of several ancillary factors (TFIIA-J) and can be regulated by various promoter-specific DNA binding proteins. An additional class of factors, called coactivators, are dispensable for basal transcription but are indispensable for regulation by transcriptional activators. Biochemical studies established that some coactivators are associated with the TATA-binding protein (TBP) to form the TFIID complex. We therefore set out to define the relationship between TBP and these TBP-associated factors (TAFs). Here we describe the cloning, expression and properties of the first human TAF, hTAFII250. The hTAFII250 gene is identical to a gene, CCG1, (ref 7,8), implicated in cell-cycle progression. Recombinant hTAFII250 binds directly to TBP both in vitro and in yeast, and participates in the formation of the TFIID complex. This largest TAF may therefore play a central role in TFIID assembly by interacting with both TBP and other TAFs, as well as serving to link the control of transcription to the cell cycle.
7758105	The TNF receptor 1-associated protein TRADD signals cell death and NF-kappa B activation.	Many diverse activities of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) are signaled through TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1). We have identified a novel 34 kDa protein, designated TRADD, that specifically interacts with an intracellular domain of TNFR1 known to be essential for mediating programmed cell death. Overexpression of TRADD leads to two major TNF-induced responses, apoptosis and activation of NF-kappa B. The C-terminal 118 amino acids of TRADD are sufficient to trigger both of these activities and likewise sufficient for interaction with the death domain of TNFR1. TRADD-mediated cell death can be suppressed by the crmA gene, which encodes a specific inhibitor of the interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme. However, NF-kappa B activation by TRADD is not inhibited by crmA expression, demonstrating that the signaling pathways for TNF-induced cell death and NF-kappa B activation are distinct.
7935368	Characterization of an interaction between insulin receptor substrate 1 and the insulin receptor by using the two-hybrid system.	Insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1) is a major substrate of the insulin receptor and has been implicated in insulin signaling. Although IRS-1 is thought to interact with the insulin receptor, the nature of the interaction has not been defined. In this study, we used the two-hybrid assay of protein-protein interaction in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to study the interaction between human IRS-1 and the insulin receptor. We demonstrate that IRS-1 forms a specific complex with the cytoplasmic domain of the insulin receptor when both are expressed as hybrid proteins in yeast cells. We show that the interaction is strictly dependent upon receptor tyrosine kinase activity, since IRS-1 shows no interaction with a kinase-inactive receptor hybrid containing a mutated ATP-binding site. Furthermore, mutation of receptor tyrosine 960 to phenylalanine eliminates IRS-1 interaction in the two-hybrid assay. These data suggest that the interaction between IRS-1 and the receptor is direct and provide evidence that the juxtamembrane domain of the receptor is involved. Furthermore, we show that a 356-amino-acid region encompassed by amino acids 160 through 516 of IRS-1 is sufficient for interaction with the receptor in the two-hybrid assay. Lastly, in agreement with our findings for yeast cells, we show that the insulin receptor is unable to phosphorylate an IRS-1 protein containing a deletion of amino acids 45 to 516 when expressed in COS cells. The two-hybrid assay should provide a facile means by which to pursue a detailed understanding of this interaction.
8052625	Antiproliferative gastrin/cholecystokinin receptor antagonists target the 78-kDa gastrin-binding protein.	Inhibition of colon carcinoma cell growth by the nonselective gastrin/cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor antagonists proglumide and benzotript provided evidence that gastrin functions as an autocrine growth factor. However, the molecular properties of the receptor mediating the antagonist effects have not been identified. A 78-kDa gastrin-binding protein (GBP), the sequence of which is related to the family of enzymes possessing enoyl-CoA hydratase and 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activities, has been previously purified from porcine gastric mucosal membranes. I now report that covalent cross-linking of 125I-labeled [Nle15]gastrin2,17 to the 78-kDa GBP is inhibited by crotonyl-CoA and by acetoacetyl-CoA. Gastrin, CCK, and their analogues also inhibit cross-linking, and the spectrum of analogue affinities correlates better with the values previously reported for binding to the gastrin/CCK-C receptor than with the values reported for binding to either the CCK-A or the gastrin/CCK-B receptor. Cross-linking is also inhibited by proglumide and benzotript, but no inhibition is seen with either the CCK-A receptor-selective antagonist L364,718 or the gastrin/CCK-B receptor-selective antagonist L365,260. The affinities of antagonists for the GBP correlate well with their affinities for the gastrin/CCK-C receptor and with their potencies for inhibition of colon carcinoma cell growth. I conclude that the 78-kDa gastrin-binding protein is (i) a member of the hydratase/dehydrogenase family of fatty acid oxidation enzymes, (ii) the gastrin/CCK-C receptor, and (iii) the target for the antiproliferative action of two gastrin/CCK receptor antagonists.
8069916	A novel family of putative signal transducers associated with the cytoplasmic domain of the 75 kDa tumor necrosis factor receptor.	Mutational analysis identified a C-terminal region of 78 amino acids within the cytoplasmic domain of the human 75 kDa tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R2) that is required for signal transduction. This region was subsequently shown to mediate the interaction of cytoplasmic factors with TNF-R2. Two of these factors were isolated and molecularly cloned using biochemical purification and the yeast two-hybrid system. TNF receptor-associated factor 1 (TRAF1) and TRAF2 are the first two members of a novel protein family containing a novel C-terminal homology region, the TRAF domain. In addition, TRAF2 contains an N-terminal RING finger motif. TRAF1 and TRAF2 can form homo- and heterotypic dimers. Our analysis indicates that TRAF1 and TRAF2 are associated with the cytoplasmic domain of TNF-R2 in a heterodimeric complex in which TRAF2 contacts the receptor directly. TRAF1 interacts with TNF-R2 indirectly through heterodimer formation with TRAF2.
8246997	A novel NF-kappa B complex containing p65 homodimers: implications for transcriptional control at the level of subunit dimerization.	The predominant inducible form of the NF-kappa B transcription factor is a heteromeric complex containing two Rel-related DNA-binding subunits, termed p65 and p50. Prior transfection studies have shown that when these p65 and p50 subunits are expressed independently as stable homodimers, p65 stimulates kappa B-directed transcription, whereas p50 functions as a kappa B-specific repressor. While authentic p50 homodimers (previously termed KBF1) have been detected in nuclear extracts from nontransfected cells, experimental evidence supporting the existence of p65 homodimers in vivo was lacking. We now provide direct biochemical evidence for the presence of an endogenous pool of inducible p65 homodimers in intact human T cells. As with the prototypical NF-kappa B p50-p65 heterodimer, this novel p65 homodimeric form of NF-kappa B is functionally sequestered in the cytoplasm but rapidly appears in the nuclear compartment following cellular stimulation. Site-directed mutagenesis studies indicate that the homodimerization function of p65 is dependent upon the presence of cysteine 216 and a conserved recognition motif for protein kinase A (RRPS; amino acids 273 to 276), both of which reside within a 91-amino-acid segment of the Rel homology domain that mediates self-association. In contrast, mutations at these two sites do not affect heterodimerization of p65 with p50 or its functional interaction with I kappa B alpha. These later findings indicate that neither homo- nor heterodimer formation is an absolute prerequisite for I kappa B alpha recognition of p65. Taken together with prior in vivo transcription studies, these results suggest that the biological activities of p65 and p50 homodimers are independently regulated, thereby providing an integrated and flexible control mechanism for the rapid activation and repression of NF-kappa B/Rel-directed gene expression.
8325373	Immunopurification of a subcomplex of the NAD(P)H-plastoquinone-oxidoreductase from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803.	An antibody against the NDH-K subunit of the NAD(P)H-dehydrogenase from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 was used to isolate a subcomplex of the enzyme from Triton X-100 solubilized total membranes by immunoaffinity chromatography. The isolated subcomplex consisted of seven major polypeptides with molecular masses of 43, 27, 24, 21, 18, 14 and 7 kDa. The amino-terminal amino acid sequences of the polypeptides were determined. By comparing the sequences with the amino acid sequences deduced from DNA, three proteins were identified as NDH-H (43 kDa), NDH-K (27 kDa) and NDH-I (24 kDa). A fourth subunit (NDH-J, 21 kDa) was identified by Western blot analysis with an NDH-J antibody.
8576172	The P58 cellular inhibitor complexes with the interferon-induced, double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase, PKR, to regulate its autophosphorylation and activity.	The 58-kDa protein, referred to as P58, is a cellular inhibitor of the interferon-induced, double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase, PKR. The P58 protein inhibits both the autophosphorylation of PKR and the phosphorylation of the PKR natural substrate, the alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor eIF-2. Sequence analysis revealed that P58 is a member of the tetratricopeptide family of proteins. Utilizing experimental approaches, which included coprecipitation or coselection of native and recombinant wild-type and mutant proteins, we found that P58 can efficiently complex with the PKR protein kinase. Attempts to map the P58 interactive sites revealed a correlation between the ability of P58 to inhibit PKR in vitro and bind to PKR. The DnaJ sequences, present at the carboxyl terminus of P58, were dispensable for binding in vitro, while sequences containing the eIF-2 alpha similarity region were essential for efficient complex formation. Furthermore, not all tetratricopeptide motifs were necessary for PKR-P58 interactions. Initial experiments to map the binding domains present in PKR showed that P58 complexed with PKR molecules that lacked the first RNA binding domain but did not bind to a PKR mutant containing only the amino terminus. These data, taken together, demonstrate that P58 inhibits PKR through a direct interaction, which is likely independent of the binding of double-stranded RNA to the protein kinase.
8626664	The transcription factor Spi-1/PU.1 binds RNA and interferes with the RNA-binding protein p54nrb.	The protooncogene for Spi-1/PU.1 is an Ets-related transcription factor overexpressed during Friend erythroleukemia. The molecular basis by which Spi-1/PU.1 is involved in the erythroleukemic process remains to be elucidated. By using an immobilized protein binding assay, we have identified a 55-kDa protein as a putative partner of Spi-1/PU.1 protein. Microsequence analysis revealed that this 55-kDa protein was p54nrb (nuclear RNA-binding protein, 54 kDa) a RNA-binding protein highly similar to the splicing factor PSF (polypyrimidine tract-binding protein-associated splicing factor). In this paper, we show that Spi-1/PU.1 impedes the binding of p54nrb to RNA and alters the splicing process in vitro. Moreover, we present evidence that the transcriptional factor Spi-1/PU.1, unlike other Ets proteins, is able to bind RNA. Altogether, these results raise the intriguing possibility that the functional interference observed between Spi-1/PU.1 and RNA-binding proteins might represent a novel mechanism in malignant erythropoiesis.
8627180	T cell receptor-dependent cell death of T cell hybridomas mediated by the CD30 cytoplasmic domain in association with tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors.	CD30 is a member of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily and a surface marker for Hodgkin's disease. Normal activated T cells and several virally transformed T or B cell lines also show CD30 expression. The interaction of CD30 with its ligand induces cell death or proliferation, depending on the cell type. In this report we characterize the signals mediated by the intracellular domain of CD30 and show that, in combination with signal(s) transduced by the T cell receptor, the multimerization of CD30 cytoplasmic domain induces Fas(CD95)-independent cell death in T cell hybridomas. Deletion analysis shows that the COOH-terminal 66 amino acids of CD30 are required to induce cell death. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have identified that the same region of CD30 interacts with tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF)1 and TRAF2. These results indicate that TRAF1 and/or TRAF2 play an important role in cell death in addition to their previously identified roles in cell proliferation.
8634242	Crystal structure of the rat liver fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase based on selenomethionine multiwavelength anomalous dispersion phases.	The crystal structure of the recombinant fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase domain, which covers the residues between 251 and 440 of the rat liver bifunctional enzyme, 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase, was determined by multiwavelength anomalous dispersion phasing and refined at 2.5 A resolution. The selenomethionine-substituted protein was induced in the methionine auxotroph, Escherichia coli DL41DE3, purified, and crystallized in a manner similar to that of the native protein. Phase information was calculated using the multiwavelength anomalous dispersion data collected at the X-ray wavelengths near the absorption edge of the K-shell alpha electrons of selenium. The fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase domain has a core alpha/beta structure which consists of six stacked beta-strands, four parallel and two antiparallel. The core beta-sheet is surrounded by nine alpha-helices. The catalytic site, as defined by a bound phosphate ion, is positioned near the C-terminal end of the beta-sheet and close to the N-terminal end of an alpha-helix. The active site pocket is funnel-shaped. The narrow opening of the funnel is wide enough for a water molecule to pass. The key catalytic residues, including His7, His141, and Glu76, are near each other at the active site and probably function as general acids and/or bases during a catalytic cycle. The inorganic phosphate molecule is bound to an anion trap formed by Arg6, His7, Arg56, and His141. The core structure of the Fru-2,6-P2ase is similar to that of the yeast phosphoglycerate mutase and the rat prostatic acid phosphatase. However, the structure of one of the loops near the active site is completely different from the other family members, perhaps reflecting functional differences and the nanomolar range affinity of Fru-2,6-P2ase for its substrate. The imidazole rings of the two key catalytic residues, His7 and His141, are not parallel as in the yeast phosphoglycerate mutase. The crystal structure is used to interpret the existing chemical data already available for the bisphosphatase domain. In addition, the crystal structure is compared with two other proteins that belong to the histidine phosphatase family.
8670882	Identification of a novel Rac1-interacting protein involved in membrane ruffling.	The Rac GTP binding proteins are implicated in actin cytoskeleton-membrane interaction in mammalian cells. In fibroblast cells, Rac has been shown to mediate growth factor-induced polymerization of actin to form membrane ruffles and lamellipodia. We report here the isolation of a noval Rac1-interacting protein, POR1. POR1 binds directly to Rac1, and the interaction of POR1 with Rac1 is GTP dependent. A mutation in the Rac1 effector binding loop shown to abolish membrane ruffling also abolishes interaction with POR1. Truncated versions of POR1 inhibit the induction of membrane ruffling by an activated mutant of Rac1, V12Rac1, in quiescent rat embryonic fibroblast REF52 cells. Furthermore, POR1 synergizes with an activated mutant of Ras, V12Ras, in the induction of membrane ruffling. These results suggest a potential role for POR1 in Rac1-mediated signaling pathways.
8670890	A bacterial invasin induces macrophage apoptosis by binding directly to ICE.	Shigella, the etiological agent of dysentery, kills macrophages by inducing apoptosis. Deletion mutants in the invasion invasion plasmid antigen B (ipaB) of Shigella flexneri are not cytotoxic. Here, we localized IpaB to the cytoplasm of macrophages infected with S. flexneri. Purified IpaB induced apoptosis when microinjected into macrophages, indicating that IpaB is sufficient to induce apoptosis. Using a GST-IpaB fusion protein as a ligand in affinity purification, we isolated four IpaB binding proteins from macrophages which were identified as the precursor and the mature polypeptides of interleukin-1beta converting enzyme (ICE) or a highly homologous protease. We found that IpaB binds directly to ICE and this enzyme is activated during S. flexneri infection. Furthermore, specific inhibitors of ICE prevented Shigella-induced apoptosis.
8681376	Involvement of MACH, a novel MORT1/FADD-interacting protease, in Fas/APO-1- and TNF receptor-induced cell death.	Fas/APO-1 and p55 tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor (p55-R) activate cellular mechanisms that result in cell death. Upon activation of these receptors, Fas/APO-1 binds a protein called MORT1 (or FADD) and p55-R binds a protein called TRADD. MORT1 and TRADD can also bind to each other. We have cloned a novel protein, MACH, that binds to MORT1. This protein exists in multiple isoforms, some of which contain a region that has proteolytic activity and shows marked sequence homology to proteases of the ICE/CED-3 family. Cellular expression of the proteolytic MACH isoforms results in cell death. Expression of MACH isoforms that contain an incomplete ICE/CED-3 region provides effective protection against the cytotoxicity induced by Fas/APO-1 or p55-R triggering. These findings suggest that MACH is the most upstream enzymatic component in the Fas/APO-1- and p55-R-induced cell death signaling cascades.
8756624	Cyclin-binding motifs are essential for the function of p21CIP1.	The cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor p21 is induced by the tumor suppressor p53 and is required for the G1-S block in cells with DNA damage. We report that there are two copies of a cyclin-binding motif in p21, Cy1 and Cy2, which interact with the cyclins independently of Cdk2. The cyclin-binding motifs of p21 are required for optimum inhibition of cyclin-Cdk kinases in vitro and for growth suppression in vivo. Peptides containing only the Cy1 or Cy2 motif partially inhibit cyclin-Cdk kinase activity in vitro and DNA replication in Xenopus egg extracts. A monoclonal antibody which recognizes the Cy1 site of p21 specifically disrupts the association of p21 with cyclin E-Cdk2 and with cyclin D1-Cdk4 in cell extracts. Taken together, these observations suggest that the cyclin-binding motif of p21 is important for kinase inhibition and for formation of p21-cyclin-Cdk complexes in the cell. Finally, we show that the cyclin-Cdk complex is partially active if associated with only the cyclin-binding motif of p21, providing an explanation for how p21 is found associated with active cyclin-Cdk complexes in vivo. The Cy sequences may be general motifs used by Cdk inhibitors or substrates to interact with the cyclin in a cyclin-Cdk complex.
8765008	OX40 is differentially expressed on activated rat and mouse T cells and is the sole receptor for the OX40 ligand.	OX40, a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor/nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor superfamily was first identified as a marker of activated rat CD4+ cells with the MRC OX40 monoclonal antibody (mAb). A ligand for OX40 (called OX40 ligand or OX40L) has recently been identified and has sequence similarity to TNF. Mouse OX40L-immunoglobulin fusion protein (OX40L-Ig) binds to activated mouse CD4+ and CD8+ cells (Baum, P. R. et al., EMBO J. 1994. 13: 3992) suggesting that OX40 could have a differential pattern of expression on mouse and rat T cells. This, however, did not rule out the presence of an alternative receptor on CD8+ cells that also binds the OX40L. We have compared the binding of the MRC OX40 mAb with that of OX40L-Ig to activated rat lymph node cells and show that both recognize the same protein, namely OX40 which is expressed on CD4+ and CD4+ CD8 alpha+ cells, but not on CD4-CD8+ cells. We have raised a new mAb (MRC OX86) using recombinant mouse OX40 protein and show by two-color flow cytometry that mouse OX40 is expressed on CD4 and CD8 single-positive cells. In addition, the new MRC OX86 mAb, unlike the MRC OX40 mAb, did not block binding of the OX40L. We conclude that OX40 is differentially expressed on activated mouse and rat T cells and is the sole receptor for the OX40L.
8805587	The crystal structure of the bifunctional enzyme 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase reveals distinct domain homologies.	BACKGROUND. Glucose homeostasis is maintained by the processes of glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. The importance of these pathways is demonstrated by the severe and life threatening effects observed in various forms of diabetes. The bifunctional enzyme 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase catalyzes both the synthesis and degradation of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, a potent regulator of glycolysis. Thus this bifunctional enzyme plays an indirect yet key role in the regulation of glucose metabolism. RESULTS. We have determined the 2.0 A crystal structure of the rat testis isozyme of this bifunctional enzyme. The enzyme is a homodimer of 55 kDa subunits arranged in a head-to-head fashion, with each monomer consisting of independent kinase and phosphatase domains. The location of ATPgammaS and inorganic phosphate in the kinase and phosphatase domains, respectively, allow us to locate and describe the active sites of both domains. CONCLUSIONS. The kinase domain is clearly related to the superfamily of mononucleotide binding proteins, with a particularly close relationship to the adenylate kinases and the nucleotide-binding portion of the G proteins. This is in disagreement with the broad speculation that this domain would resemble phosphofructokinase. The phosphatase domain is structurally related to a family of proteins which includes the cofactor independent phosphoglycerate mutases and acid phosphatases.
8858162	Architecture of coatomer: molecular characterization of delta-COP and protein interactions within the complex.	Coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that forms the coat of COP I-coated transport vesicles. In our attempt to analyze the physical and functional interactions between its seven subunits (coat proteins, [COPs] alpha-zeta), we engaged in a program to clone and characterize the individual coatomer subunits. We have now cloned, sequenced, and overexpressed bovine alpha-COP, the 135-kD subunit of coatomer as well as delta-COP, the 57-kD subunit and have identified a yeast homolog of delta-COP by cDNA sequence comparison and by NH2-terminal peptide sequencing. delta-COP shows homologies to subunits of the clathrin adaptor complexes AP1 and AP2. We show that in Golgi-enriched membrane fractions, the protein is predominantly found in COP I-coated transport vesicles and in the budding regions of the Golgi membranes. A knock-out of the delta-COP gene in yeast is lethal. Immunoprecipitation, as well as analysis exploiting the two-hybrid system in a complete COP screen, showed physical interactions between alpha- and epsilon-COPs and between beta- and delta-COPs. Moreover, the two-hybrid system indicates interactions between gamma- and zeta-COPs as well as between alpha- and beta' COPs. We propose that these interactions reflect in vivo associations of those subunits and thus play a functional role in the assembly of coatomer and/or serve to maintain the molecular architecture of the complex.
8861961	Multiple interactions amongst floral homeotic MADS box proteins.	Most known floral homeotic genes belong to the MADS box family and their products act in combination to specify floral organ identity by an unknown mechanism. We have used a yeast two-hybrid system to investigate the network of interactions between the Antirrhinum organ identity gene products. Selective heterodimerization is observed between MADS box factors. Exclusive interactions are detected between two factors, DEFICIENS (DEF) and GLOBOSA (GLO), previously known to heterodimerize and control development of petals and stamens. In contrast, a third factor, PLENA (PLE), which is required for reproductive organ development, can interact with the products of MADS box genes expressed at early, intermediate and late stages. We also demonstrate that heterodimerization of DEF and GLO requires the K box, a domain not found in non-plant MADS box factors, indicating that the plant MADS box factors may have different criteria for interaction. The association of PLENA and the temporally intermediate MADS box factors suggests that part of their function in mediating between the meristem and organ identity genes is accomplished through direct interaction. These data reveal an unexpectedly complex network of interactions between the factors controlling flower development and have implications for the determination of organ identity.
8875929	Structure of the MDM2 oncoprotein bound to the p53 tumor suppressor transactivation domain.	The MDM2 oncoprotein is a cellular inhibitor of the p53 tumor suppressor in that it can bind the transactivation domain of p53 and downregulate its ability to activate transcription. In certain cancers, MDM2 amplification is a common event and contributes to the inactivation of p53. The crystal structure of the 109-residue amino-terminal domain of MDM2 bound to a 15-residue transactivation domain peptide of p53 revealed that MDM2 has a deep hydrophobic cleft on which the p53 peptide binds as an amphipathic alpha helix. The interface relies on the steric complementarity between the MDM2 cleft and the hydrophobic face of the p53 alpha helix and, in particular, on a triad of p53 amino acids-Phe19, Trp23, and Leu26-which insert deep into the MDM2 cleft. These same p53 residues are also involved in transactivation, supporting the hypothesis that MDM2 inactivates p53 by concealing its transactivation domain. The structure also suggests that the amphipathic alpha helix may be a common structural motif in the binding of a diverse family of transactivation factors to the TATA-binding protein-associated factors.
8895581	Purification and biochemical heterogeneity of the mammalian SWI-SNF complex.	We have purified distinct complexes of nine to 12 proteins [referred to as BRG1-associated factors (BAFs)] from several mammalian cell lines using an antibody to the SWI2-SNF2 homolog BRG1. Microsequencing revealed that the 47 kDa BAF is identical to INI1. Previously INI1 has been shown to interact with and activate human immunodeficiency virus integrase and to be homologous to the yeast SNF5 gene. A group of BAF47-associated proteins were affinity purified with antibodies against INI1/BAF47 and were found to be identical to those co-purified with BRG1, strongly indicating that this group of proteins associates tightly and is likely to be the mammalian equivalent of the yeast SWI-SNF complex. Complexes containing BRG1 can disrupt nucleosomes and facilitate the binding of GAL4-VP16 to a nucleosomal template similar to the yeast SWI-SNF complex. Purification of the complex from several cell lines demonstrates that it is heterogeneous with respect to subunit composition. The two SWI-SNF2 homologs, BRG1 and hbrm, were found in separate complexes. Certain cell lines completely lack BRG1 and hbrm, indicating that they are not essential for cell viability and that the mammalian SWI-SNF complex may be tailored to the needs of a differentiated cell type.
8910514	Identification of TRAF6, a novel tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor protein that mediates signaling from an amino-terminal domain of the CD40 cytoplasmic region.	CD40 signalings play crucial roles in B-cell function. To identify molecules which transduce CD40 signalings, we have utilized the yeast two-hybrid system to clone cDNAs encoding proteins that bind the cytoplasmic tail of CD40. A cDNA encoding a putative signal transducer, designated TRAF6, has been molecularly cloned. TRAF6 has a tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR)-associated factor (TRAF) domain in its carboxyl terminus and has a RING finger domain, a cluster of zinc fingers and a coiled-coil domain, which are also present in other TRAF family proteins. TRAF6 does not associate with the cytoplasmic tails of TNFR2, CD30, lymphotoxin-beta receptor, and LMP1 of Epstein-Barr virus. Deletion analysis showed that residues 246-269 of CD40 which are required for its association with TRAF2, TRAF3, and TRAF5 are dispensable for its interaction with TRAF6, whereas residues 230-245 were required. Overexpression of TRAF6 activates transcription factor NFkappaB, and its TRAF-C domain suppresses NFkappaB activation triggered by CD40 lacking residues 246-277. These results suggest that TRAF6 could mediate the CD40 signal that is transduced by the amino-terminal domain (230-245) of the CD40 cytoplasmic region and appears to be independent of other known TRAF family proteins.
8943045	The tumor necrosis factor receptor 2 signal transducers TRAF2 and c-IAP1 are components of the tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 signaling complex.	The two cell surface receptors for tumor necrosis factor (TNF) interact with a number of intracellular signal transducing proteins. The association of TRADD, a 34-kDa cytoplasmic protein containing a C-terminal death domain, with aggregated TNF receptor 1 (TNF-R1) through their respective death domains leads to NF-kappa B activation and programmed cell death. In contrast, TNF receptor 2 (TNF-R2) interacts with the TNF receptor associated factors 2/1 (TRAF2/TRAF1) heterocomplex, which mediates the recruitment of two cellular inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (c-IAP1 and c-IAP2) to TNF-R2. Here we show that the TNF-R2 signal transducers TRAF2 and c-IAP1 are a part of the TNF-R1 signaling complex. The recruitment of TRAF2 and c-IAP1 to TNF-R1 is TNF-dependent, is mediated by TRADD, and is independent of TNF-R2. These data establish the physiological involvement of TRAF2 and c-IAP1 in TNF-R1 signaling and help provide a molecular explanation for both the overlapping and distinct signals generated by the two TNF receptors.
9001210	The human Myt1 kinase preferentially phosphorylates Cdc2 on threonine 14 and localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex.	Entry into mitosis requires the activity of the Cdc2 kinase. Cdc2 associates with the B-type cyclins, and the Cdc2-cyclin B heterodimer is in turn regulated by phosphorylation. Phosphorylation of threonine 161 is required for the Cdc2-cyclin B complex to be catalytically active, whereas phosphorylation of threonine 14 and tyrosine 15 is inhibitory. Human kinases that catalyze the phosphorylation of threonine 161 and tyrosine 15 have been identified. Here we report the isolation of a novel human cDNA encoding a dual-specificity protein kinase (designated Myt1Hu) that preferentially phosphorylates Cdc2 on threonine 14 in a cyclin-dependent manner. Myt1Hu is 46% identical to Myt1Xe, a kinase recently characterized from Xenopus laevis. Myt1Hu localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex in HeLa cells. A stretch of hydrophobic and uncharged amino acids located outside the catalytic domain of Myt1Hu is the likely membrane-targeting domain, as its deletion results in the localization of Myt1Hu primarily to the nucleus.
9012831	BAP-135, a target for Bruton's tyrosine kinase in response to B cell receptor engagement.	Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) is essential for B cell activation, but downstream targets of Btk have not been defined. We now describe a protein, BAP-135, that is associated with Btk in B cells and is a substrate for phosphorylation by Btk. BAP-135, which exhibits no detectable homology to known proteins, contains six occurrences of a hitherto undescribed amino acid repeat and two motifs, similar to the Src autophosphorylation site, that represent potential targets for tyrosine phosphorylation. The pleckstrin homology domain of Btk comprises the principal site of BAP-135 binding. Btk-dependent phosphorylation of BAP-135 is abolished by mutations that impair activation of Btk by Src-related kinases. Btk and BAP-135 exist in a complex before B cell antigen receptor (BCR) engagement; in response to BCR crosslinking, BAP-135 is transiently phosphorylated on tyrosine. Taken together, these observations suggest that BAP-135 may reside downstream of Btk in a signaling pathway originating at the BCR.
9024666	Interaction between the C. elegans cell-death regulators CED-9 and CED-4.	Programmed cell death (apoptosis) is an evolutionarily conserved process used by multicellular organisms to eliminate cells that are not needed or are potentially detrimental to the organism. Members of the Bcl-2 family of mammalian proteins are intimately involved in the regulation of apoptosis, but, their precise mechanism of action remains unresolved. In Caenorhabditis elegans, the Bcl-2 homologue CED-9 prevents cell death by antagonizing the death-promoting activities of CED-3, a member of the Caspase family of death proteases, and of CED-4, a protein with no known mammalian homologue. Here we show that CED-9 interacts physically with CED-4. Mutations that reduce or eliminate CED-9 activity also disrupt its ability to bind CED-4, suggesting that this interaction is important for CED-9 function. Thus, CED-9 might control C. elegans cell death by binding to and regulating CED-4 activity. We propose that mammalian Bcl-2 family members might control apoptosis in a similar way through interaction and regulation of CED-4 homologues or analogues.
9027312	Interaction of CED-4 with CED-3 and CED-9: a molecular framework for cell death.	Previous genetic studies of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans identified three important components of the cell death machinery. CED-3 and CED-4 function to kill cells, whereas CED-9 protects cells from death. Here CED-9 and its mammalian homolog Bcl-xL (a member of the Bcl-2 family of cell death regulators) were both found to interact with and inhibit the function of CED-4. In addition, analysis revealed that CED-4 can simultaneously interact with CED-3 and its mammalian counterparts interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (ICE) and FLICE. Thus, CED-4 plays a central role in the cell death pathway, biochemically linking CED-9 and the Bcl-2 family to CED-3 and the ICE family of pro-apoptotic cysteine proteases.
9027313	Interaction and regulation of subcellular localization of CED-4 by CED-9.	The Caenorhabditis elegans survival gene ced-9 regulates ced-4 activity and inhibits cell death, but the mechanism by which this occurs is unknown. Through a genetic screen for CED-4-binding proteins, CED-9 was identified as an interacting partner of CED-4. CED-9, but not loss-of-function mutants, associated specifically with CED-4 in yeast or mammalian cells. The CED-9 protein localized primarily to intracellular membranes and the perinuclear region, whereas CED-4 was distributed in the cytosol. Expression of CED-9, but not a mutant lacking the carboxy-terminal hydrophobic domain, targeted CED-4 from the cytosol to intracellular membranes in mammalian cells. Thus, the actions of CED-4 and CED-9 are directly linked, which could provide the basis for the regulation of programmed cell death in C. elegans.
9045636	Interaction between Sam68 and Src family tyrosine kinases, Fyn and Lck, in T cell receptor signaling.	The Src family protein-tyrosine kinase, Fyn, is associated with the T cell receptor (TCR) and plays an important role in TCR-mediated signaling. We found that a human T cell leukemia virus type 1-infected T cell line, Hayai, overexpressed Fyn. To identify the molecules downstream of Fyn, we analyzed the tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular proteins in the cells. In Hayai, a 68-kDa protein was constitutively tyrosine-phosphorylated. The 68-kDa protein was coimmunoprecipitated with various signaling proteins such as phospholipase C gamma1, the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase p85 subunit, Grb2, SHP-1, Cbl, and Jak3, implying that the protein might function as an adapter. Purification and microsequencing of this protein revealed that it was the RNA-binding protein, Sam68 (Src associated in mitosis, 68 kDa). Sam68 was associated with the Src homology 2 and 3 domains of Fyn and also those of another Src family kinase, Lck. CD3 cross-linking induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Sam68 in uninfected T cells. These data suggest that Sam68 participates in the signal transduction pathway downstream of TCR-coupled Src family kinases Fyn and Lck in lymphocytes, that is not only in the mitotic pathway downstream of c-Src in fibroblasts.
9047334	Mapping of functional interactions between domains of the animal fatty acid synthase by mutant complementation in vitro.	Polypeptides of the animal fatty acid synthase (FAS) consist of three amino-terminal catalytic domains, beta-ketoacyl synthase, malonyl/acetyltransacylase, and dehydrase, separated by a 600-residue structural core from four carboxyl-terminal catalytic domains, enoyl reductase, beta-ketoacyl reductase, acyl carrier protein, and thioesterase. In the active dimeric form of the protein the two identical multifunctional polypeptides are oriented head-to-tail such that two sites for palmitate synthesis are formed at the subunit interface. In order to map the functional interactions between domains of the two subunits that contribute to the two sites of synthesis, we have utilized a strategy based on complementation analysis in vitro of modified FASs carrying mutations in specific catalytic domains. Homodimeric mutant FASs lacking functional beta-ketoacyl synthase (KS-), dehydrase (DH-), acyl carrier protein (ACP-), or thioesterase (TE-) domains, as well as heterodimers formed between ACP- and TE- subunits, between ACP- and DH- subunits, and between DH- and TE- subunits, were unable to synthesize fatty acids. However, heterodimers formed between KS- and either DH-, ACP-, or TE- subunits regained partial FAS activity. These data indicate that the dehydrase domain, although located in the amino-terminal half of the polypeptide, should be assigned to the complementation group located in the carboxy-terminal half that includes the acyl carrier protein and thioesterase domains. Thus, the current model for the animal FAS must be revised to reflect the finding that the two constituent polypeptides are not simply positioned side-by-side in a fully extended conformation but are coiled in a manner that allows the dehydrase domain to access the beta-hydroxyacyl-ACP located more than 1100 residues distant on the same subunit.
9106657	New functional activities for the p21 family of CDK inhibitors.	The association of cdk4 with D-type cyclins to form functional kinase complexes is comparatively inefficient. This has led to the suggestion that assembly might be a regulated step. In this report we demonstrate that the CDK inhibitors p21(CIP), p27(KIP), and p57(KIP2) all promote the association of cdk4 with the D-type cyclins. This effect is specific and does not occur with other cdk inhibitors or cdk-binding proteins. Both in vivo and in vitro, the abundance of assembled cdk4/cyclin D complex increases directly with increasing inhibitor levels. The promotion of assembly is not attributable to a simple cell cycle block and requires the function of both the cdk and cyclin-binding domains. Kinetic studies demonstrate that p21 and p27 lead to a 35- and 80-fold increase in K(a), respectively, mostly because of a decrease in K(off). At low concentrations, p21 promotes the assembly of active kinase complexes, whereas at higher concentrations, it inhibits activity. Moreover, immunodepletion experiments demonstrate that most of the active cdk4-associated kinase activity also associates with p21. To confirm these results in a natural setting, we examine the assembly of endogenous complexes in mammary epithelial cells after release from a G(0) arrest. In agreement with our other data, cyclin D1 and p21 bind concomitantly to cdk4 during the in vivo assembly of cdk4/cyclin D1 complexes. This complex assembly occurs in parallel to an increase in cyclin D1-associated kinase activity. Immunodepletion experiments demonstrate that most of the cellular cyclin D1-associated kinase activity is also p21 associated. Finally, we find that all three CIP/KIP inhibitors target cdk4 and cyclin D1 to the nucleus. We suggest that in addition to their roles as inhibitors, the p21 family of proteins, originally identified as inhibitors, may also have roles as adaptor proteins that assemble and program kinase complexes for specific functions.
9111035	Identification of a region of interaction between Escherichia coli SecA and SecY proteins.	SecA ATPase promotes Escherichia coli protein translocation by its association with the preprotein or preprotein-SecB complex, anionic phospholipids, and the other core component of translocase, integral membrane protein SecYEG. Using ligand affinity blotting we demonstrate a direct interaction of SecA with SecY protein. Proteolysis and gene truncation or fusion studies were used to further define this interaction. Our results demonstrate that the carboxyl-terminal third of SecA protein binds to the amino-terminal 107 amino acid residues of SecY protein. The direct demonstration of these interactions culminate studies that have inferred an interaction between SecA and SecYEG, and they are consistent with studies suggesting that this region of SecA interacts with the inner membrane.
9121462	A yeast replicative helicase, Dna2 helicase, interacts with yeast FEN-1 nuclease in carrying out its essential function.	We have recently described a new helicase, the Dna2 helicase, that is essential for yeast DNA replication. We now show that the yeast FEN-1 (yFEN-1) nuclease interacts genetically and biochemically with Dna2 helicase. FEN-1 is implicated in DNA replication and repair in yeast, and the mammalian homolog of yFEN-1 (DNase IV, FEN-1, or MF1) participates in Okazaki fragment maturation. Overproduction of yFEN-1, encoded by RAD27/RTH1, suppresses the temperature-sensitive growth of dna2-1 mutants. Overproduction of Dna2 suppresses the rad27/rth1 delta temperature-sensitive growth defect. dna2-1 rad27/rth1 delta double mutants are inviable, indicating that the mutations are synthetically lethal. The genetic interactions are likely due to direct physical interaction between the two proteins, since both epitope-tagged yFEN-1 and endogenous yFEN-1 coimmunopurify with tagged Dna2. The simplest interpretation of these data is that one of the roles of Dna2 helicase is associated with processing of Okazaki fragments.
9150135	Histone deacetylases and SAP18, a novel polypeptide, are components of a human Sin3 complex.	An important event in gene expression is the covalent modification of histone proteins. We have found that the mammalian transcriptional repressor Sin3 (mSin3) exists in a complex with histone deacetylases HDAC1 and HDAC2. Consistent with the observation that mSin3-mediated repression of transcription involves the modification of histone polypeptides, we found that the mSin3-containing complex includes polypeptides that tether the mSin3 complex to core histone proteins. In addition, two novel mSin3-associated polypeptides, SAP18 and SAP30, were identified. We isolated a cDNA encoding human SAP18 and found that SAP18 is a component of an mSin3-containing complex in vivo. Moreover, we demonstrate a direct interaction between SAP18 and mSin3. SAP18 represses transcription in vivo when tethered to the promoter, consistent with the ability of SAP18 to interact with mSin3.
9153189	ATAR, a novel tumor necrosis factor receptor family member, signals through TRAF2 and TRAF5.	Members of tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) family signal largely through interactions with death domain proteins and TRAF proteins. Here we report the identification of a novel TNFR family member ATAR. Human and mouse ATAR contain 283 and 276 amino acids, respectively, making them the shortest known members of the TNFR superfamily. The receptor is expressed mainly in spleen, thymus, bone marrow, lung, and small intestine. The intracellular domains of human and mouse ATAR share only 25% identity, yet both interact with TRAF5 and TRAF2. This TRAF interaction domain resides at the C-terminal 20 amino acids. Like most other TRAF-interacting receptors, overexpression of ATAR activates the transcription factor NF-kappaB. Co-expression of ATAR with TRAF5, but not TRAF2, results in synergistic activation of NF-kappaB, suggesting potentially different roles for TRAF2 and TRAF5 in post-receptor signaling.
9162022	Herpesvirus entry mediator, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) family, interacts with members of the TNFR-associated factor family and activates the transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1.	The mammalian tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) family consists of 10 cell-surface proteins that regulate development and homeostasis of the immune system. Based on an expressed sequence tag, we have cloned a cDNA encoding a novel member of the human TNFR family. A closely related protein, designated HVEM (for herpesvirus entry mediator), was identified independently by another group as a mediator of herpesvirus entry into mammalian cells (Montgomery, R., Warner, M., Lum, B., and Spear, P. (1996) Cell 87, 427-436). HVEM differed from our clone by two amino acid residues, suggesting that the two proteins represent polymorphism of a single HVEM gene. We detected HVEM mRNA expression in several human fetal and adult tissues, although the predominant sites of expression were lymphocyte-rich tissues such as adult spleen and peripheral blood leukocytes. The cytoplasmic region of HVEM bound to several members of the TNFR-associated factor (TRAF) family, namely TRAF1, TRAF2, TRAF3, and TRAF5, but not to TRAF6. Transient transfection of HVEM into human 293 cells caused marked activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), a transcriptional regulator of multiple immunomodulatory and inflammatory genes. HVEM transfection induced also marked activation of Jun N-terminal kinase, and of the Jun-containing transcription factor AP-1, a regulator of cellular stress-response genes. These results suggest that HVEM is linked via TRAFs to signal transduction pathways that activate the immune response.
9162036	Serine 331 and tyrosine 333 are both involved in the interaction between the cytosolic domain of TGN38 and the mu2 subunit of the AP2 clathrin adaptor complex.	TGN38 is a type I integral membrane protein that cycles between the trans-Golgi network and the plasma membrane. Internalization at the cell surface and targeting back to the trans-Golgi network is dependent on a hexapeptide motif, SDYQRL, in the cytosolic tail of the protein. It was recently demonstrated that this motif specifically interacts with the mu2 subunit of the AP2 adaptor complex. We have studied the interaction between the entire cytosolic domain of TGN38 and mu2 using the yeast two hybrid system, in vitro binding of recombinant fusion proteins and IAsys optical biosensor technology. A specific interaction has been demonstrated in each of the systems we have employed. We have shown an absolute requirement for Tyr-333 of TGN38 in binding to mu2. In addition we found that mutation of Ser-331 to alanine reduces the affinity of the interaction. By measuring tryptophan fluorescence at equilibrium, we have also determined the dissociation constant for the interaction between the entire cytosolic tail of TGN38 and mu2 as 58 nM. In contrast to previously published work, our data suggest that not only Tyr-333 but also its context is important in determining the specificity of binding of TGN38 to mu2.
9177220	CD27, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family, induces apoptosis and binds to Siva, a proapoptotic protein.	Members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily are important for cell growth and survival. In addition to providing costimulatory signals for cell proliferation, ligation of both TNFR1 and Fas can result in programmed cell death or apoptosis. The underlying mechanism requires an intact 80-aa stretch present in the cytoplasmic tails of both TNFR1 and Fas, termed the death domain (DD). Here we show that CD27, a member of the TNFR family, expressed on discrete subpopulations of T and B cells and known to provide costimulatory signals for T and B cell proliferation and B cell Ig production, can also induce apoptosis. Co-crosslinking of surface Ig receptors along with ligation of CD27 augments CD27-mediated apoptosis. Unlike TNFR1 and Fas, the cytoplasmic tail of CD27 is relatively short and lacks the DD. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have cloned a novel protein (Siva) that binds to the CD27 cytoplasmic tail. It has a DD homology region, a box-B-like ring finger, and a zinc finger-like domain. Overexpression of Siva in various cell lines induces apoptosis, suggesting an important role for Siva in the CD27-transduced apoptotic pathway.
9194564	Synergistic activation of transcription by CBP and p53.	The tumour suppressor p53 is a transcriptional regulator whose ability to inhibit cell growth is dependent upon its transactivation function. Here we demonstrate that the transcription factor CBP, which is also implicated in cell proliferation and differentiation, acts as a p53 coactivator and potentiates its transcriptional activity. The amino-terminal activation domain of p53 interacts with the carboxy-terminal portion of the CBP protein both in vitro and in vivo. In transfected SaoS-2 cells, CBP potentiates activation of the mdm-2 gene by p53 and, reciprocally, p53 potentiates activation of a Gal4-responsive target gene by a Gal4(1-147)-CBP(1678-2441) fusion protein. A double point mutation that destroys the transactivation function of p53 also abolishes its binding to CBP and its synergistic function with CBP. The ability of p53 to interact physically and functionally with a coactivator (CBP) that has histone acetyltransferase activity and with components (TAFs) of the general transcription machinery indicates that it may have different functions in a multistep activation pathway.
9194565	Binding and modulation of p53 by p300/CBP coactivators.	The adenovirus E1A and SV40 large-T-antigen oncoproteins bind to members of the p300/CBP transcriptional coactivator family. Binding of p300/CBP is implicated in the transforming mechanisms of E1A and T-antigen oncoproteins. A common region of the T antigen is critical for binding both p300/CBP and the tumour suppressor p53, suggesting a link between the functions of p53 and p300. Here we report that p300/CBP binds to p53 in the absence of viral oncoproteins, and that p300 and p53 colocalize within the nucleus and coexist in a stable DNA-binding complex. Consistent with its ability to bind to p300, E1A disrupted functions mediated by p53. It reduced p53-mediated activation of the p21 and bax promoters, and suppressed p53-induced cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. We conclude that members of the p300/CBP family are transcriptional adaptors for p53, modulating its checkpoint function in the G1 phase of the cell cycle and its induction of apoptosis. Disruption of p300/p53-dependent growth control may be part of the mechanism by which E1A induces cell transformation. These results help to explain how p53 mediates growth and checkpoint control, and how members of the p300/CBP family affect progression from G1 to the S phase of the cell cycle.
9215629	Daxx, a novel Fas-binding protein that activates JNK and apoptosis.	The Fas cell surface receptor induces apoptosis upon receptor oligomerization. We have identified a novel signaling protein, termed Daxx, that binds specifically to the Fas death domain. Overexpression of Daxx enhances Fas-mediated apoptosis and activates the Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway. A C-terminal portion of Daxx interacts with the Fas death domain, while a different region activates both JNK and apoptosis. The Fas-binding domain of Daxx is a dominant-negative inhibitor of both Fas-induced apoptosis and JNK activation, while the FADD death domain partially inhibits death but not JNK activation. The Daxx apoptotic pathway is sensitive to both Bcl-2 and dominant-negative JNK pathway components and acts cooperatively with the FADD pathway. Thus, Daxx and FADD define two distinct apoptotic pathways downstream of Fas.
9235896	A novel interaction between adrenergic receptors and the alpha-subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2B.	The alpha-subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2B (eIF-2B), a guanine nucleotide exchange protein that functions in regulation of translation, was observed to associate with the carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic domains of the alpha2A- and alpha2B-adrenergic receptors in a yeast two-hybrid screen of a cDNA library prepared from 293 cells. This protein association was confirmed in vitro by affinity chromatography and was shown to be specific for a subset of G protein-coupled receptors, including the alpha2A-, alpha2B-, alpha2C-, and beta2-adrenergic receptors, but not the vasopressin (V2) receptor. Association of these proteins in vivo was confirmed by specific co-immunoprecipitation of eIF-2Balpha with full-length beta2-adrenergic receptors expressed in transfected 293 cells and by fluorescence microscopy showing co-localization of these proteins in intact cells. Remarkably, eIF-2Balpha co-localized with receptors exclusively in regions of the plasma membrane that are in contact with the extracellular medium, but failed to associate with membranes making cell-cell contacts. Overexpression of eIF-2Balpha in 293 cells caused a small (approximately 15%) but significant enhancement of beta2-adrenergic receptor-mediated activation of adenylyl cyclase, without affecting forskolin or V2 receptor-mediated activation. These observations suggest a new role for a previously identified guanine nucleotide exchange protein in membrane biology and cell signaling.
9261161	Interaction and regulation of the Caenorhabditis elegans death protease CED-3 by CED-4 and CED-9.	In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, three genes, ced-3, ced-4, and ced-9, play critical roles in the induction and execution of the death pathway. Genetic studies have suggested that ced-9 controls programmed cell death by regulating ced-4 and ced-3. However, the mechanism by which CED-9 controls the activities of CED-4 and the cysteine protease CED-3, the effector arm of the cell-death pathway, remains poorly understood. Immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrates that CED-9 forms a multimeric protein complex with CED-4 and CED-3 in vivo. Expression of wild-type CED-4 promotes the ability of CED-3 to induce apoptosis in mammalian cells, which is inhibited by CED-9. The pro-apoptotic activity of CED-4 requires the expression of a functional CED-3 protease. Significantly, loss-of-function CED-4 mutants are impaired in their ability to promote CED-3-mediated apoptosis. Expression of CED-4 enhances the proteolytic activation of CED-3. We also show that CED-9 inhibits the formation of p13 and p15, two cleavage products of CED-3 associated with its proteolytic activation in vivo. Moreover, CED-9 inhibits the enzymatic activity of CED-3 promoted by CED-4. Thus, these results provide evidence that CED-4 and CED-9 regulate the activity of CED-3 through physical interactions, which may provide a molecular basis for the control of programmed cell death in C. elegans.
9267026	PHYL acts to down-regulate TTK88, a transcriptional repressor of neuronal cell fates, by a SINA-dependent mechanism.	We show that Tramtrack (TTK88) expression represses neuronal fate determination in the developing Drosophila eye. Phyllopod (PHYL) acts to antagonize this repression by a mechanism that requires Seven In Absentia (SINA) and is associated with decreased TTK88 protein levels, but not reduced ttk88 gene transcription or mRNA stability. We present evidence that SINA, PHYL, and TTK88 physically interact and that SINA interacts genetically and physically with UBCD1, a component of the ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation pathway. Our results suggest a model in which activation of the Sevenless receptor tyrosine kinase induces PHYL expression, which then acts with SINA to target the transcriptional repressor TTK88 for degradation, thereby promoting R7 cell fate specification.
9278513	A cyanobacterial phytochrome two-component light sensory system.	The biliprotein phytochrome regulates plant growth and developmental responses to the ambient light environment through an unknown mechanism. Biochemical analyses demonstrate that phytochrome is an ancient molecule that evolved from a more compact light sensor in cyanobacteria. The cyanobacterial phytochrome Cph1 is a light-regulated histidine kinase that mediates red, far-red reversible phosphorylation of a small response regulator, Rcp1 (response regulator for cyanobacterial phytochrome), encoded by the adjacent gene, thus implicating protein phosphorylation-dephosphorylation in the initial step of light signal transduction by phytochrome.
9280292	Glycoprotein VI is the collagen receptor in platelets which underlies tyrosine phosphorylation of the Fc receptor gamma-chain.	We have recently shown that collagen activates platelets through a pathway dependent on the Fc receptor gamma-chain and the tyrosine kinase Syk. We report here that the Fc receptor gamma-chain and the candidate collagen receptor glycoprotein VI (GPVI) co-associate. Furthermore, cross-linking GPVI stimulates a similar pattern of tyrosine phosphorylation to that stimulated by collagen, including tyrosine phosphorylation of Fc receptor gamma-chain. These results support a model where GPVI couples collagen-stimulation of platelets to phosphorylation of the Fc receptor gamma-chain leading to activation of Syk and phospholipase Cgamma2.
9312003	A role for POR1, a Rac1-interacting protein, in ARF6-mediated cytoskeletal rearrangements.	The ARF6 GTPase, the least conserved member of the ADP ribosylation factor (ARF) family, associates with the plasma membrane and intracellular endosome vesicles. Mutants of ARF6 defective in GTP binding and hydrolysis have a marked effect on endocytic trafficking and the gross morphology of the peripheral membrane system. Here we report that expression of the GTPase-defective mutant of ARF6, ARF6(Q67L), remodels the actin cytoskeleton by inducing actin polymerization at the cell periphery. This cytoskeletal rearrangement was inhibited by co-expression of ARF6(Q67L) with deletion mutants of POR1, a Rac1-interacting protein involved in membrane ruffling, but not with the dominant-negative mutant of Rac1, Rac1(S17N). A synergistic effect between POR1 and ARF6 for the induction of actin polymerization was detected. Furthermore, we observed that ARF6 interacts directly with POR1 and that this interaction was GTP dependent. These findings indicate that ARF6 and Rac1 function on distinct signaling pathways to mediate cytoskeletal reorganization, and suggest a role for POR1 as an important regulatory element in orchestrating cytoskeletal rearrangements at the cell periphery induced by ARF6 and Rac1.
9338791	Structure at 1.65 A of RhoA and its GTPase-activating protein in complex with a transition-state analogue.	Small G proteins of the Rho family, which includes Rho, Rac and Cdc42Hs, regulate phosphorylation pathways that control a range of biological functions including cytoskeleton formation and cell proliferation. They operate as molecular switches, cycling between the biologically active GTP-bound form and the inactive GDP-bound state. Their rate of hydrolysis of GTP to GDP by virtue of their intrinsic GTPase activity is slow, but can be accelerated by up to 10(5)-fold through interaction with rhoGAP, a GTPase-activating protein that stimulates Rho-family proteins. As such, rhoGAP plays a crucial role in regulating Rho-mediated signalling pathways. Here we report the crystal structure of RhoA and rhoGAP complexed with the transition-state analogue GDP.AlF4- at 1.65 A resolution. There is a rotation of 20 degrees between the Rho and rhoGAP proteins in this complex when compared with the ground-state complex Cdc42Hs.GMPPNP/rhoGAP, in which Cdc42Hs is bound to the non-hydrolysable GTP analogue GMPPNP. Consequently, in the transition state complex but not in the ground state, the rhoGAP domain contributes a residue, Arg85(GAP) directly into the active site of the G protein. We propose that this residue acts to stabilize the transition state of the GTPase reaction. RhoGAP also appears to function by stabilizing several regions of RhoA that are important in signalling the hydrolysis of GTP.
9341158	Functional domain mapping of the clathrin-associated adaptor medium chains mu1 and mu2.	The clathrin-associated adaptors AP-1 and AP-2 are heterotetrameric complexes involved in the recognition of sorting signals present within the cytosolic domain of integral membrane proteins. The medium chains of these complexes, mu1 and mu2, have been implicated in two types of interaction: assembly with the beta1 and beta2 chains of the corresponding complexes and recognition of tyrosine-based sorting signals. In this study, we report the results of a structure-function analysis of the mu1 and mu2 chains aimed at identifying regions of the molecules that are responsible for each of the two interactions. Analyses using the yeast two-hybrid system and proteolytic digestion experiments suggest that mu1 and mu2 have a bipartite structure, with the amino-terminal one-third (residues 1-145 of mu1 and mu2) being involved in assembly with the beta chains and the carboxyl-terminal two-thirds (residues 147-423 of mu1 and 164-435 of mu2) binding tyrosine-based sorting signals. These observations support a model in which the amino-terminal one-third of mu2 is embedded within the core of the AP-2 complex, while the carboxyl-terminal two-thirds of the protein are exposed to the medium, placing this region in a position to interact with tyrosine-based sorting signals.
9342315	Protein-protein interactions among the Aux/IAA proteins.	The plant hormone indoleacetic acid (IAA) transcriptionally activates early genes in plants. The Aux/IAA family of early genes encodes proteins that are short-lived and nuclear-localized. They also contain a putative prokaryotic betaalphaalpha DNA binding motif whose formation requires protein dimerization. Here, we show that the pea PS-IAA4 and Arabidopsis IAA1 and IAA2 proteins perform homo- and heterotypic interactions in yeast using the two-hybrid system. Gel-filtration chromatography and chemical cross-linking experiments demonstrate that the PS-IAA4 and IAA1 proteins interact to form homodimers in vitro. Deletion analysis of PS-IAA4 indicates that the betaalphaalpha containing acidic C terminus of the protein is necessary for homotypic interactions in the yeast two-hybrid system. Screening an Arabidopsis lambda-ACT cDNA library using IAA1 as a bait reveals heterotypic interactions of IAA1 with known and newly discovered members of the Arabidopsis Aux/IAA gene family. The new member IAA24 has similarity to ARF1, a transcription factor that binds to an auxin response element. Combinatorial interactions among the various members of the Aux/IAA gene family may regulate a variety of late genes as well as serve as autoregulators of early auxin-regulated gene expression. These interactions provide a molecular basis for the developmental and tissue-specific manner of auxin action.
9343432	A domain shared by the Polycomb group proteins Scm and ph mediates heterotypic and homotypic interactions.	The Sex comb on midleg (Scm) and polyhomeotic (ph) proteins are members of the Polycomb group (PcG) of transcriptional repressors. PcG proteins maintain differential patterns of homeotic gene expression during development in Drosophila flies. The Scm and ph proteins share a homology domain with 38% identity over a length of 65 amino acids, termed the SPM domain, that is located at their respective C termini. Using the yeast two-hybrid system and in vitro protein-binding assays, we show that the SPM domain mediates direct interaction between Scm and ph. Binding studies with isolated SPM domains from Scm and ph show that the domain is sufficient for these protein interactions. These studies also show that the Scm-ph and Scm-Scm domain interactions are much stronger than the ph-ph domain interaction, indicating that the isolated domain has intrinsic binding specificity determinants. Analysis of site-directed point mutations identifies residues that are important for SPM domain function. These binding properties, predicted alpha-helical secondary structure, and conservation of hydrophobic residues prompt comparisons of the SPM domain to the helix-loop-helix and leucine zipper domains used for homotypic and heterotypic protein interactions in other transcriptional regulators. In addition to in vitro studies, we show colocalization of the Scm and ph proteins at polytene chromosome sites in vivo. We discuss the possible roles of the SPM domain in the assembly or function of molecular complexes of PcG proteins.
9388232	Dimerization properties of human BAD. Identification of a BH-3 domain and analysis of its binding to mutant BCL-2 and BCL-XL proteins.	Bad, an inducer of programmed cell death, was recently isolated from a mouse cDNA library by its ability to bind to the anti-apoptotic protein BCL-2. Sequence analysis suggested that Bad was a member of the BCL-2 gene family that encodes both inducers and inhibitors of programmed cell death. To further analyze the role of BAD in the network of homo- and heterodimers formed by the BCL-2 family, we have cloned the human homologue of BAD and assessed its biological activity and its interactions with wild type and mutant BCL-2 family proteins. Our results indicate that the human BAD protein, like its mouse homologue, is able to induce apoptosis when transfected into mammalian cells. Furthermore, in yeast two-hybrid assays as well as quantitative in vitro interaction assays, human Bad interacted with BCL-2 and BCL-XL. Sequence alignments of human BAD revealed the presence of a BH-3 homology domain as seen in other BCL-2 family proteins. Peptides derived from this domain were able to completely inhibit the dimerization of BAD with BCL-XL. Thus, as previously shown for BAX, BAK, BCL-2, and BCL-XL, the BH3 domain of BAD is required for its dimerization with other BCL-2 family proteins. BAD was further analyzed for its ability to bind to various mutants of BCL-2 and BCL-XL that have lost the ability to bind BAX and BAK, some of which retain biological activity and some of which do not. Surprisingly, all of the mutated BCL-2 and BCL-XL proteins analyzed strongly interacted with human BAD. Our data thus indicate that mutations in BCL-2 and BCL-XL can differentially affect the heterodimeric binding of different death-promoting proteins and have implications concerning the relationship between heterodimerization and biological activity.
9405363	The chloroplastic protein import machinery contains a Rieske-type iron-sulfur cluster and a mononuclear iron-binding protein.	Transport of precursor proteins across the chloroplastic envelope membranes requires the interaction of protein translocons localized in both the outer and inner envelope membranes. Analysis by blue native gel electrophoresis revealed that the translocon of the inner envelope membranes consisted of at least six proteins with molecular weights of 36, 45, 52, 60, 100 and 110 kDa, respectively. Tic110 and ClpC, identified as components of the protein import apparatus of the inner envelope membrane, were prominent constituents of this complex. The amino acid sequence of the 52 kDa protein, deduced from the cDNA, contains a predicted Rieske-type iron-sulfur cluster and a mononuclear iron-binding site. Diethylpyrocarbonate, a Rieske-type protein-modifying reagent, inhibits the translocation of precursor protein across the inner envelope membrane, whereas binding of the precursor to the outer envelope membrane is still possible. In another independent experimental approach, the 52 kDa protein could be co-purified with a trapped precursor protein in association with the chloroplast protein translocon subunits Toc86, Toc75, Toc34 and Tic110. Together, these results strongly suggest that the 52 kDa protein, named Tic55 due to its calculated molecular weight, is a member of the chloroplastic inner envelope protein translocon.
9405671	WIP, a protein associated with wiskott-aldrich syndrome protein, induces actin polymerization and redistribution in lymphoid cells.	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked immunodeficiency caused by mutations that affect the WAS protein (WASP) and characterized by cytoskeletal abnormalities in hematopoietic cells. By using the yeast two-hybrid system we have identified a proline-rich WASP-interacting protein (WIP), which coimmunoprecipitated with WASP from lymphocytes. WIP binds to WASP at a site distinct from the Cdc42 binding site and has actin as well as profilin binding motifs. Expression of WIP in human B cells, but not of a WIP truncation mutant that lacks the actin binding motif, increased polymerized actin content and induced the appearance of actin-containing cerebriform projections on the cell surface. These results suggest that WIP plays a role in cortical actin assembly that may be important for lymphocyte function.
9418861	Myotonic dystrophy kinase-related Cdc42-binding kinase acts as a Cdc42 effector in promoting cytoskeletal reorganization.	The Rho GTPases play distinctive roles in cytoskeletal reorganization associated with growth and differentiation. The Cdc42/Rac-binding p21-activated kinase (PAK) and Rho-binding kinase (ROK) act as morphological effectors for these GTPases. We have isolated two related novel brain kinases whose p21-binding domains resemble that of PAK whereas the kinase domains resemble that of myotonic dystrophy kinase-related ROK. These approximately 190-kDa myotonic dystrophy kinase-related Cdc42-binding kinases (MRCKs) preferentially phosphorylate nonmuscle myosin light chain at serine 19, which is known to be crucial for activating actin-myosin contractility. The p21-binding domain binds GTP-Cdc42 but not GDP-Cdc42. The multidomain structure includes a cysteine-rich motif resembling those of protein kinase C and n-chimaerin and a putative pleckstrin homology domain. MRCK alpha and Cdc42V12 colocalize, particularly at the cell periphery in transfected HeLa cells. Microinjection of plasmid encoding MRCK alpha resulted in actin and myosin reorganization. Expression of kinase-dead MRCK alpha blocked Cdc42V12-dependent formation of focal complexes and peripheral microspikes. This was not due to possible sequestration of the p21, as a kinase-dead MRCK alpha mutant defective in Cdc42 binding was an equally effective blocker. Coinjection of MRCK alpha plasmid with Cdc42 plasmid, at concentrations where Cdc42 plasmid by itself elicited no effect, led to the formation of the peripheral structures associated with a Cdc42-induced morphological phenotype. These Cdc42-type effects were not promoted upon coinjection with plasmids of kinase-dead or Cdc42-binding-deficient MRCK alpha mutants. These results suggest that MRCK alpha may act as a downstream effector of Cdc42 in cytoskeletal reorganization.
9418902	4-1BB and Ox40 are members of a tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-nerve growth factor receptor subfamily that bind TNF receptor-associated factors and activate nuclear factor kappaB.	Members of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor family have been shown to be important costimulatory molecules for cellular activation. 4-1BB and Ox40 are two recently described members of this protein family which are expressed primarily on activated T cells. To gain insight into the signaling pathways employed by these factors, yeast two-hybrid library screens were performed with the cytoplasmic domains of 4-1BB and Ox40 as baits. TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) was identified as an interacting protein in both screens. The ability of both 4-1BB and Ox40 to interact with TRAF2 was confirmed in mammalian cells by coimmunoprecipitation studies. When the binding of the receptors to other TRAF proteins was investigated, 4-1BB and Ox40 displayed distinct binding patterns. While 4-1BB bound TRAF2 and TRAF1, Ox40 interacted with TRAF3 and TRAF2. Using deletion and alanine scanning analysis, we defined the elements in the cytoplasmic domains of both receptors that mediate these interactions. The 4-1BB receptor was found to have two independent stretches of acidic residues that can mediate association of the TRAF molecules. In contrast, a single TRAF binding domain was identified in the cytoplasmic tail of Ox40. The cytoplasmic domains of both receptors were shown to activate nuclear factor kappaB in a TRAF-dependent manner. Taken together, our results indicate that 4-1BB and Ox40 bind TRAF proteins to initiate a signaling cascade leading to activation of nuclear factor kappaB.
9462508	LIGHT, a new member of the TNF superfamily, and lymphotoxin alpha are ligands for herpesvirus entry mediator.	Herpes simplex virus (HSV) 1 and 2 infect activated T lymphocytes by attachment of the HSV envelope glycoprotein D (gD) to the cellular herpesvirus entry mediator (HVEM), an orphan member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. Here, we demonstrate that HVEM binds two cellular ligands, secreted lymphotoxin alpha (LTalpha) and LIGHT, a new member of the TNF superfamily. LIGHT is a 29 kDa type II transmembrane protein produced by activated T cells that also engages the receptor for the LTalphabeta heterotrimer but does not form complexes with either LTalpha or LTbeta. HSV1 gD inhibits the interaction of HVEM with LIGHT, and LIGHT and gD interfere with HVEM-dependent cell entry by HSV1. This characterizes herpesvirus gD as a membrane-bound viokine and establishes LIGHT-HVEM as integral components of the lymphotoxin cytokine-receptor system.
9463381	The conserved N-terminal BH4 domain of Bcl-2 homologues is essential for inhibition of apoptosis and interaction with CED-4.	Bcl-2 and close homologues such as Bcl-xL promote cell survival, while other relatives such as Bax antagonize this function. Since only the pro-survival family members possess a conserved N-terminal region denoted BH4, we have explored the role of this amphipathic helix for their survival function and for interactions with several agonists of apoptosis, including Bax and CED-4, an essential regulator in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. BH4 of Bcl-2 could be replaced by that of Bcl-x without perturbing function but not by a somewhat similar region near the N-terminus of Bax. Bcl-2 cell survival activity was reduced by substitutions in two of ten conserved BH4 residues. Deletion of BH4 rendered Bcl-2 (and Bcl-xL) inactive but did not impair either Bcl-2 homodimerization or ability to bind to Bax or five other pro-apoptotic relatives (Bak, Bad, Bik, Bid or Bim). Hence, association with these death agonists is not sufficient to promote cell survival. Significantly, however, Bcl-xL lacking BH4 lost the ability both to bind CED-4 and antagonize its pro-apoptotic activity. These results favour the hypothesis that the BH4 domain of pro-survival Bcl-2 family members allows them to sequester CED-4 relatives and thereby prevent apoptosis.
9469814	Mass spectrometric analysis of the anaphase-promoting complex from yeast: identification of a subunit related to cullins.	Entry into anaphase and exit from mitosis depend on a ubiquitin-protein ligase complex called the anaphase-promoting complex (APC) or cyclosome. At least 12 different subunits were detected in the purified particle from budding yeast, including the previously identified proteins Apc1p, Cdc16p, Cdc23p, Cdc26p, and Cdc27p. Five additional subunits purified in low nanogram amounts were identified by tandem mass spectrometric sequencing. Apc2p, Apc5p, and the RING-finger protein Apc11p are conserved from yeast to humans. Apc2p is similar to the cullin Cdc53p, which is a subunit of the ubiquitin-protein ligase complex SCFCdc4 required for the initiation of DNA replication.
9482750	Evidence for a physical interaction between the Escherichia coli methyl-directed mismatch repair proteins MutL and UvrD.	UvrD (DNA helicase II) is an essential component of two major DNA repair pathways in Escherichia coli: methyl-directed mismatch repair and UvrABC-mediated nucleotide excision repair. In addition, it has an undefined role in the RecF recombination pathway and possibly in replication. In an effort to better understand the role of UvrD in these various aspects of DNA metabolism, a yeast two-hybrid screen was used to search for interacting protein partners. Screening of an E.coli genomic library revealed a potential interaction between UvrD and MutL, a component of the methyl-directed mismatch repair pathway. The interaction was confirmed by affinity chromatography using purified proteins. Deletion analysis demonstrated that the C-terminal 218 amino acids (residues 398-615) of MutL were sufficient to produce the two-hybrid interaction with UvrD. On the other hand, both the N- and C-termini of UvrD were required for interaction with MutL. The implications of this interaction for the mismatch repair mechanism are discussed.
9501083	Molecular structure of the sarcomeric Z-disk: two types of titin interactions lead to an asymmetrical sorting of alpha-actinin.	The sarcomeric Z-disk, the anchoring plane of thin (actin) filaments, links titin (also called connectin) and actin filaments from opposing sarcomere halves in a lattice connected by alpha-actinin. We demonstrate by protein interaction analysis that two types of titin interactions are involved in the assembly of alpha-actinin into the Z-disk. Titin interacts via a single binding site with the two central spectrin-like repeats of the outermost pair of alpha-actinin molecules. In the central Z-disk, titin can interact with multiple alpha-actinin molecules via their C-terminal domains. These interactions allow the assembly of a ternary complex of titin, actin and alpha-actinin in vitro, and are expected to constrain the path of titin in the Z-disk. In thick skeletal muscle Z-disks, titin filaments cross over the Z-disk centre by approximately 30 nm, suggesting that their alpha-actinin-binding sites overlap in an antiparallel fashion. The combination of our biochemical and ultrastructural data now allows a molecular model of the sarcomeric Z-disk, where overlapping titin filaments and their interactions with the alpha-actinin rod and C-terminal domain can account for the essential ultrastructural features.
9502797	dSLo interacting protein 1, a novel protein that interacts with large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channels.	Large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channels (BK channels) are activated by depolarized membrane potential and elevated levels of intracellular calcium. BK channel activity underlies the fast afterhyperpolarization that follows an action potential and attenuates neurotransmitter and hormone secretion. Using a modified two-hybrid approach, the interaction trap, we have identified a novel protein from Drosophila, dSLIP1 (dSLo interacting protein), which specifically interacts with Drosophila and human BK channels and has partial homology to the PDZ domain of alpha1 syntrophin. The dSLIP1 and dSlo mRNAs are expressed coincidently throughout the Drosophila nervous system, the two proteins interact in vitro, and they may be coimmunoprecipitated from transfected cells. Coexpression of dSLIP1 with dSlo or hSlo BK channels in Xenopus oocytes results in reduced currents as compared with expression of BK channels alone; current amplitudes may be rescued by coexpression with the channel domain that interacts with dSLIP1. Single-channel recordings and immunostaining of transfected tissue culture cells suggest that dSLIP1 selectively reduces Slo BK currents by reducing the number of BK channels in the plasma membrane.
9539129	Slob, a novel protein that interacts with the Slowpoke calcium-dependent potassium channel.	Slob, a novel protein that binds to the carboxy-terminal domain of the Drosophila Slowpoke (dSlo) calcium-dependent potassium channel, was identified with a yeast two-hybrid screen. Slob and dSlo coimmunoprecipitate from Drosophila heads and heterologous host cells, suggesting that they interact in vivo. Slob also coimmunoprecipitates with the Drosophila EAG potassium channel but not with Drosophila Shaker, mouse Slowpoke, or rat Kv1.3. Confocal fluorescence microscopy demonstrates that Slob and dSlo redistribute in cotransfected cells and are colocalized in large intracellular structures. Direct application of Slob to the cytoplasmic face of detached membrane patches containing dSlo channels leads to an increase in channel activity. Slob may represent a new class of multi-functional channel-binding proteins.
9571151	Identification and characterization of a novel SH3-domain binding protein, Sab, which preferentially associates with Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BtK).	Protein interaction cloning method was used to identify a novel molecule, Sab, which binds to the SH3 domain of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk), the deficient cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase in human X-linked agammaglobulinemia and murine X-linked immunodeficiency. Immunoprecipitation using the anti-Sab antibody identified the protein product of the gene as a 70 kDa molecule. While Sab does not have a proline-rich sequence, it was shown to bind to Btk through the commonly conserved structure among SH3 domains. Remarkably, Sab exhibited a high preference for binding to Btk rather than to other cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases, which suggests a unique role of Sab in the Btk signal transduction pathway.
9584153	The cardiac tissue-restricted homeobox protein Csx/Nkx2.5 physically associates with the zinc finger protein GATA4 and cooperatively activates atrial natriuretic factor gene expression.	Specification and differentiation of the cardiac muscle lineage appear to require a combinatorial network of many factors. The cardiac muscle-restricted homeobox protein Csx/Nkx2.5 (Csx) is expressed in the precardiac mesoderm as well as the embryonic and adult heart. Targeted disruption of Csx causes embryonic lethality due to abnormal heart morphogenesis. The zinc finger transcription factor GATA4 is also expressed in the heart and has been shown to be essential for heart tube formation. GATA4 is known to activate many cardiac tissue-restricted genes. In this study, we tested whether Csx and GATA4 physically associate and cooperatively activate transcription of a target gene. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate that Csx and GATA4 associate intracellularly. Interestingly, in vitro protein-protein interaction studies indicate that helix III of the homeodomain of Csx is required to interact with GATA4 and that the carboxy-terminal zinc finger of GATA4 is necessary to associate with Csx. Both regions are known to directly contact the cognate DNA sequences. The promoter-enhancer region of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) contains several putative Csx binding sites and consensus GATA4 binding sites. Transient-transfection assays indicate that Csx can activate ANF reporter gene expression to the same extent that GATA4 does in a DNA binding site-dependent manner. Coexpression of Csx and GATA4 synergistically activates ANF reporter gene expression. Mutational analyses suggest that this synergy requires both factors to fully retain their transcriptional activities, including the cofactor binding activity. These results demonstrate the first example of homeoprotein and zinc finger protein interaction in vertebrates to cooperatively regulate target gene expression. Such synergistic interaction among tissue-restricted transcription factors may be an important mechanism to reinforce tissue-specific developmental pathways.
9590696	Chromatin remodelling by the glucocorticoid receptor requires the BRG1 complex.	The assembly of transcriptional regulatory DNA sequences into chromatin plays a fundamental role in modulating gene expression. The promoter of the mouse mammary-tumour virus (MMTV) is packaged into a regular array of nucleosomes when it becomes stably integrated into mammalian chromosomes, and has been used to investigate the relationship between chromatin architecture and transcriptional activation by the hormone-bound glucocorticoid and progesterone receptors. In mammalian cells that express both of these receptors, the progesterone receptor activates transcription from transiently transfected MMTV DNA but not from organized chromatin templates. Moreover, the activated progesterone receptor inhibits the chromatin remodelling and consequent transcriptional stimulation that is mediated by the glucocorticoid receptor. Here we investigate the mechanism of this inhibition by characterizing the interaction of the glucocorticoid receptor with transcriptional co-activator and chromatin remodelling protein complexes. We show that when this receptor is prevented from interacting with the hBRG1/BAF chromatin remodelling complex, it can activate transcription from transiently transfected DNA but not from organized chromatin templates. Our results indicate that it may be possible to separate the transcriptional activation and chromatin remodelling activities of proteins that interact with hormone receptors.
9604928	The C. elegans protein EGL-1 is required for programmed cell death and interacts with the Bcl-2-like protein CED-9.	Gain-of-function mutations in the Caenorhabditis elegans gene egl-1 cause the HSN neurons to undergo programmed cell death. By contrast, a loss-of-function egl-1 mutation prevents most if not all somatic programmed cell deaths. The egl-1 gene negatively regulates the ced-9 gene, which protects against cell death and is a member of the bcl-2 family. The EGL-1 protein contains a nine amino acid region similar to the Bcl-2 homology region 3 (BH3) domain but does not contain a BH1, BH2, or BH4 domain, suggesting that EGL-1 may be a member of a family of cell death activators that includes the mammalian proteins Bik, Bid, Harakiri, and Bad. The EGL-1 and CED-9 proteins interact physically. We propose that EGL-1 activates programmed cell death by binding to and directly inhibiting the activity of CED-9, perhaps by releasing the cell death activator CED-4 from a CED-9/CED-4-containing protein complex.
9635433	Geminin, an inhibitor of DNA replication, is degraded during mitosis.	We describe a novel 25 kDa protein, geminin, which inhibits DNA replication and is degraded during the mitotic phase of the cell cycle. Geminin has a destruction box sequence and is ubiquitinated anaphase-promoting complex (APC) in vitro. In synchronized HeLa cells, geminin is absent during G1 phase, accumulates during S, G2, and M phases, and disappears at the time of the metaphase-anaphase transition. Geminin inhibits DNA replication by preventing the incorporation of MCM complex into prereplication complex (pre-RC). We propose that geminin inhibits DNA replication during S, G2, and M phases and that geminin destruction at the metaphase-anaphase transition permits replication in the succeeding cell cycle.
9649430	Aut2p and Aut7p, two novel microtubule-associated proteins are essential for delivery of autophagic vesicles to the vacuole.	AUT2 and AUT7, two novel genes essential for autophagocytosis in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were isolated. AUT7 was identified as a low copy suppressor of autophagic defects in aut2-1 cells. Aut7p is a homologue of the rat microtubule-associated protein (MAP) light chain 3 (LC3). Aut2p and Aut7p interact physically. Aut7p is attached to microtubules via Aut2p, which interacts with tubulins Tub1p and Tub2p. aut2- and aut7-deleted cells are unable to deliver autophagic vesicles and the precursor of aminopeptidase I to the vacuole. Double membrane-layered autophagosome-like vesicles accumulate in the cytoplasm of these cells. Our findings suggest that microtubules and an attached protein complex of Aut2p and Aut7p are involved in the delivery of autophagic vesicles to the vacuole.
9651369	The death inhibitory molecules CED-9 and CED-4L use a common mechanism to inhibit the CED-3 death protease.	The apoptotic machinery of Caenorhabditis elegans includes three core interacting components: CED-3, CED-4, and CED-9. CED-3 is a death protease composed of a prodomain and a protease domain. CED-4 is a P-loop-containing, nucleotide-binding molecule that complexes with the single polypeptide zymogen form of CED-3, promoting its activation by autoprocessing. CED-9 blocks death by complexing with CED-4 and suppressing its ability to promote CED-3 activation. A naturally occurring alternatively spliced form of CED-4 that contains an insertion within the nucleotide-binding region (CED-4L) functions as a dominant negative inhibitor of CED-3 processing and attenuates cell death. Domain mapping studies revealed that distinct regions within CED-4 bind to the CED-3 prodomain and protease domain. Importantly, the CED-4 P-loop was involved in prodomain binding. Disruption of P-loop geometry because of mutation of a critical lysine (K165R) or insertional inactivation (CED-4L) abolished prodomain binding. Regardless, K165R and CED-4L still retained CED-3 binding through the protease domain but were unable to initiate CED-3 processing. Therefore, the P-loop-prodomain interaction is critical for triggering CED-4-mediated CED-3 processing. Underscoring the importance of this interaction was the finding that CED-9 contacted the P-loop and selectively inhibited its interaction with the CED-3 prodomain. These results provide a simple mechanism for how CED-9 functions to block CED-4-mediated CED-3 processing and cell death.
9658397	Determination of Gab1 (Grb2-associated binder-1) interaction with insulin receptor-signaling molecules.	The newly identified insulin receptor (IR) substrate, Gab1 [growth factor receptor bound 2 (Grb2)-associated binder-1] is rapidly phosphorylated on several tyrosine residues by the activated IR. Phosphorylated Gab1 acts as a docking protein for Src homology-2 (SH2) domain-containing proteins. These include the regulatory subunit p85 of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and phosphotyrosine phosphatase, SHP-2. In this report, using a modified version of the yeast two-hybrid system, we localized which Gab1 phospho-tyrosine residues are required for its interaction with phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and with SHP-2. Our results demonstrate that to interact with p85 or SHP-2 SH2 domains, Gab1 must be tyrosine phosphorylated by IR. Further, we found that Gab1 tyrosine 472 is the major site for association with p85, while tyrosines 447 and 589 are participating in this process. Concerning Gab1/SHP-2 interaction, only mutation of tyrosine 627 prevents binding of Gab1 to SHP-2 SH2 domains, suggesting the occurrence of a monovalent binding event. Finally, we examined the role of Gab1 PH (Pleckstrin homology) domain in Gab1/IR interaction and in Gab1 tyrosine phosphorylation by IR. Using the modified two-hybrid system and in vitro experiments, we found that the Gab1 PH domain is not important for IR/ Gab1 interaction and for Gab1 tyrosine phosphorylation. In contrast, in intact mammalian cells, Gab1 PH domain appears to be crucial for its tyrosine phosphorylation and association with SHP-2 after insulin stimulation.
9692890	The TNF receptor family member CD27 signals to Jun N-terminal kinase via Traf-2.	CD27 is a lymphocyte-specific member of the TNF receptor (TNFR) family. It is a costimulatory molecule for peripheral T cells, as defined by its ability to enhance the TCR-induced proliferative response. We show here that CD27 augments TCR-induced Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activity in primary murine lymph node T cells. To investigate how CD27 couples to JNK, we performed a yeast two hybrid screen with the CD27 cytoplasmic tail. This revealed that CD27 directly associates with Traf-2. Transfection experiments using dominant negative Traf-2 indicated that CD27 communicates with JNK via Traf-2. These findings group CD27 together with other members of the TNFR family, TNFR-1, -2, CD30 and CD40, which have all been shown to couple to Traf proteins. Since Traf proteins have been reported to initiate an anti-apoptotic signaling pathway, our data suggest that CD27 not only regulates proliferation, but also survival of T lymphocytes.
9702189	SAP30, a component of the mSin3 corepressor complex involved in N-CoR-mediated repression by specific transcription factors.	The transcriptional corepressor mSin3 is found in a large multiprotein complex containing the histone deacetylases HDAC1 and HDAC2, in addition to at least five tightly associated polypeptides. We have cloned and characterized a novel component of the mSin3 complex, SAP30, SAP30 binds to mSin3 and is capable of mediating transcriptional repression via histone deacetylases. SAP30 also binds the N-CoR corepressor and is required for N-CoR-mediated repression by antagonist-bound estrogen receptor and the homeodomain protein Rpx, as well as N-CoR suppression of transactivation by the POU domain protein Pit-1. However, SAP30 is not required for N-CoR-mediated repression by unliganded retinoic acid receptor or thyroid hormone receptor, suggesting that SAP30 is involved in the functional recruitment of the mSin3-histone deacetylase complex to a specific subset of N-CoR corepressor complexes.
9733768	Identification and characterization of novel clathrin adaptor-related proteins.	We have identified a human approximately 87-kDa protein, designated as gamma2-adaptin, that is similar to gamma-adaptin (called gamma1-adaptin in this paper), a large chain of the AP-1 clathrin-associated adaptor complex, not only in the primary structure (60% amino acid identity) but also in the domain organization. Northern blot analysis has shown that its mRNA is expressed in a variety of tissues. Analysis using a yeast two-hybrid system has revealed that, similarly to gamma1-adaptin, gamma2-adaptin is capable of interacting not only with the sigma1 chain (called as sigma1A in this paper), the small chain of the AP-1 complex, but also with a novel sigma1-like protein, designated as sigma1B, which shows an 87% amino acid identity to sigma1A; and that, unlike gamma1-adaptin, it is unable to interact with beta1-adaptin, another large chain of the AP-1 complex. Immunofluorescence microscopy analysis has revealed that gamma2-adaptin is localized to paranuclear vesicular structures that are not superimposed on structures containing gamma1-adaptin. Furthermore, unlike gamma1-adaptin, gamma2-adaptin is recruited onto membranes in the presence of a fungal antibiotic, brefeldin A. These data suggest that gamma2-adaptin constitute a novel adaptor-related complex that participates in a transport step different from that of AP-1.
9743501	Activation of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) by the adapter protein Daxx.	The Fas death receptor can activate the Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway through the receptor-associated protein Daxx. Daxx was found to activate the JNK kinase kinase ASK1, and overexpression of a kinase-deficient ASK1 mutant inhibited Fas- and Daxx-induced apoptosis and JNK activation. Fas activation induced Daxx to interact with ASK1, which consequently relieved an inhibitory intramolecular interaction between the amino- and carboxyl-termini of ASK1, activating its kinase activity. The Daxx-ASK1 connection completes a signaling pathway from a cell surface death receptor to kinase cascades that modulate nuclear transcription factors.
9751060	IKK-gamma is an essential regulatory subunit of the IkappaB kinase complex.	Pro-inflammatory cytokines activate the transcription factor NF-kappaB by stimulating the activity of a protein kinase that phosphorylates IkappaB, an inhibitor of NF-kappaB, at sites that trigger its ubiquitination and degradation. This results in the nuclear translocation of freed NF-kappaB dimers and the activation of transcription of target genes. Many of these target genes code for immunoregulatory proteins. A large, cytokine-responsive IkappaB kinase (IKK) complex has been purified and the genes encoding two of its subunits have been cloned. These subunits, IKK-alpha and IKK-beta, are protein kinases whose function is needed for NF-kappaB activation by pro-inflammatory stimuli. Here, by using a monoclonal antibody against IKK-alpha, we purify the IKK complex to homogeneity from human cell lines. We find that IKK is composed of similar amounts of IKK-alpha, IKK-beta and two other polypeptides, for which we obtained partial sequences. These polypeptides are differentially processed forms of a third subunit, IKK-gamma. Molecular cloning and sequencing indicate that IKK-gamma is composed of several potential coiled-coil motifs. IKK-gamma interacts preferentially with IKK-beta and is required for the activation of the IKK complex. An IKK-gamma carboxy-terminal truncation mutant that still binds IKK-beta blocks the activation of IKK and NF-kappaB.
9753447	Lys75 of Anabaena ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase is a critical residue for binding ferredoxin and flavodoxin during electron transfer.	Previous studies, and the three-dimensional structure of Anabaena PCC 7119 ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase (FNR), indicate that the positive charge of Lys75 might be directly involved in the interaction between FNR and its protein partners, ferredoxin (Fd) and flavodoxin (Fld). To assess this possibility, this residue has been replaced by another positively charged residue, Arg, by two uncharged residues, Gln and Ser, and by a negatively charged residue, Glu. UV-vis absorption, fluorescence, and CD spectroscopies of these FNR mutants (Lys75Arg, Lys75Gln, Lys75Ser, and Lys75Glu) indicate that all the mutated proteins folded properly and that significant protein structural rearrangements did not occur. Steady-state kinetic parameters for these FNR mutants, utilizing the diaphorase activity with DCPIP, indicate that Lys75 is not a critical residue for complex formation and electron transfer (ET) between FNR and NADP+ or NADPH. However, steady-state kinetic activities requiring complex formation and ET between FNR and Fd or Fld were appreciably affected when the positive charge at position of Lys75 was removed, and the ET reaction was not even measurable if a negatively charged residue was placed at this position. These kinetic parameters also suggest that it is complex formation that is affected by mutation. Consistent with this, when dissociation constants (Kd) for FNRox-Fdox (differential spectroscopy) and FNRox-Fdrd (laser flash photolysis) were measured, it was found that neutralization of the positive charge at position 75 increased the Kd values by 50-100-fold, and that no complex formation could be detected upon introduction of a negative charge at this position. Fast transient kinetic studies also corroborated the fact that removal of the positive charge at position 75 of FNR appreciably affects the complex formation process with its protein partners but indicates that ET is still achieved in all the reactions. This study thus clearly establishes the requirement of a positive charge at position Lys75 for complex formation during ET between FNR and its physiological protein partners. The results also suggest that the interaction of this residue with its protein partners is not structurally specific, since Lys75 can still be efficiently substituted by an arginine, but is definitely charge specific.
9774689	The human U5-220kD protein (hPrp8) forms a stable RNA-free complex with several U5-specific proteins, including an RNA unwindase, a homologue of ribosomal elongation factor EF-2, and a novel WD-40 protein.	The human small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP) U5 is biochemically the most complex of the snRNP particles, containing not only the Sm core proteins but also 10 particle-specific proteins. Several of these proteins have sequence motifs which suggest that they participate in conformational changes of RNA and protein. Together, the specific proteins comprise 85% of the mass of the U5 snRNP particle. Therefore, protein-protein interactions should be highly important for both the architecture and the function of this particle. We investigated protein-protein interactions using both native and recombinant U5-specific proteins. Native U5 proteins were obtained by dissociation of U5 snRNP particles with the chaotropic salt sodium thiocyanate. A stable, RNA-free complex containing the 116-kDa EF-2 homologue (116kD), the 200kD RNA unwindase, the 220kD protein, which is the orthologue of the yeast Prp8p protein, and the U5-40kD protein was detected by sedimentation analysis of the dissociated proteins. By cDNA cloning, we show that the 40kD protein is a novel WD-40 repeat protein and is thus likely to mediate regulated protein-protein interactions. Additional biochemical analyses demonstrated that the 220kD protein binds simultaneously to the 40- and the 116kD proteins and probably also to the 200kD protein. Since the 220kD protein is also known to contact both the pre-mRNA and the U5 snRNA, it is in a position to relay the functional state of the spliceosome to the other proteins in the complex and thus modulate their activity.
9786987	Localization of postsynaptic density-93 to dendritic microtubules and interaction with microtubule-associated protein 1A.	Postsynaptic density-93 (PSD-93)/Chapsyn-110 is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of PDZ domain-containing proteins. MAGUKs are widely expressed in the brain and are critical elements of the cytoskeleton and of certain synapses. In the ultrastructural studies that are described here, PSD-93 localizes to both postsynaptic densities and dendritic microtubules of cerebellar Purkinje neurons. The microtubule localization is paralleled by a high-affinity in vivo interaction of PSD-93 via its guanylate kinase (GK) domain with microtubule-associated protein 1A (MAP1A). GK domain truncations that mimic genetically identified mutations of a Drosophila MAGUK, discs-large, disrupt the GK/MAP-1A interaction. Additional biochemical experiments demonstrate that intact MAGUKs do not bind to MAP1A as effectively as do isolated GK domains. This appears to be attributable to an intramolecular inhibition of the GK domain by the PDZs, because GK binding activity of full-length MAGUKs is partially restored by a variety of PDZ ligands, including the C termini of NMDA receptor 2B, adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), and CRIPT. Beyond demonstrating a novel cytoskeletal link for PSD-93, these experiments support a model in which intramolecular interactions between the multiple domains of MAGUKs regulate intermolecular associations and thereby may play a role in the proper targeting and function of MAGUK proteins.
9804419	Structural basis for activation of the titin kinase domain during myofibrillogenesis.	The giant muscle protein titin (connectin) is essential in the temporal and spatial control of the assembly of the highly ordered sarcomeres (contractile units) of striated muscle. Here we present the crystal structure of titin's only catalytic domain, an autoregulated serine kinase (titin kinase). The structure shows how the active site is inhibited by a tyrosine of the kinase domain. We describe a dual mechanism of activation of titin kinase that consists of phosphorylation of this tyrosine and binding of calcium/calmodulin to the regulatory tail. The serine kinase domain of titin is the first known non-arginine-aspartate kinase to be activated by phosphorylation. The phosphorylated tyrosine is not located in the activation segment, as in other kinases, but in the P + 1 loop, indicating that this tyrosine is a binding partner of the titin kinase substrate. Titin kinase phosphorylates the muscle protein telethonin in early differentiating myocytes, indicating that this kinase may act in myofibrillogenesis.
9812899	A structural explanation for the recognition of tyrosine-based endocytotic signals.	Many cell surface proteins are marked for endocytosis by a cytoplasmic sequence motif, tyrosine-X-X-(hydrophobic residue), that is recognized by the mu2 subunit of AP2 adaptors. Crystal structures of the internalization signal binding domain of mu2 complexed with the internalization signal peptides of epidermal growth factor receptor and the trans-Golgi network protein TGN38 have been determined at 2.7 angstrom resolution. The signal peptides adopted an extended conformation rather than the expected tight turn. Specificity was conferred by hydrophobic pockets that bind the tyrosine and leucine in the peptide. In the crystal, the protein forms dimers that could increase the strength and specificity of binding to dimeric receptors.
9830048	Delineation of the oligomerization, AP-2 binding, and synprint binding region of the C2B domain of synaptotagmin.	Biochemical and genetic studies indicate that synaptotagmin I functions as a Ca2+ sensor during synaptic vesicle exocytosis and as a membrane receptor for the clathrin adaptor complex, AP-2, during endocytosis. These functions involve the interaction of two conserved domains, C2A and C2B, with effector proteins. The C2B domain mediates Ca2+-triggered synaptotagmin oligomerization, binds AP-2 and is important for the interaction of synaptotagmin with Ca2+ channels. Here, we report that these are conserved biochemical properties: Ca2+ promoted the hetero-oligomerization of synaptotagmin I with synaptotagmins III and IV, and all three synaptotagmin isoforms bound the synprint region of the alpha1B subunit of N-type Ca2+ channels. Using chimeric and truncated C2 domains, we defined a common region of C2B that mediates oligomerization and AP-2 binding. Within this region, two adjacent lysine residues were identified that were critical for synaptotagmin oligomerization, AP-2, and synprint binding. Competition experiments demonstrated that the synprint fragment was an effective inhibitor of synaptotagmin oligomerization and also blocked binding of synaptotagmin to AP-2. In a model for the structure of C2B, the common effector binding site localized to a putative Ca2+-binding loop and a concave region formed by two beta-strands. These studies provide the first structural information regarding C2B target protein recognition and provide the means to selectively disrupt synaptotagmin-effector interactions for functional studies.
9845368	PIF3, a phytochrome-interacting factor necessary for normal photoinduced signal transduction, is a novel basic helix-loop-helix protein.	The mechanism by which the phytochrome (phy) photoreceptor family transduces informational light signals to photoresponsive genes is unknown. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we have identified a phytochrome-interacting factor, PIF3, a basic helix-loop-helix protein containing a PAS domain. PIF3 binds to wild-type C-terminal domains of both phyA and phyB, but less strongly to signaling-defective, missense mutant-containing domains. Expression of sense or antisense PIF3 sequences in transgenic Arabidopsis perturbs photoresponsiveness in a manner indicating that PIF3 functions in both phyA and phyB signaling pathways in vivo. PIF3 localized to the nucleus in transient transfection experiments, indicating a potential role in controlling gene expression. Together, the data suggest that phytochrome signaling to photoregulated genes includes a direct pathway involving physical interaction between the photoreceptor and a transcriptional regulator.
9846874	Structures of Cdc42 bound to the active and catalytically compromised forms of Cdc42GAP.	The Rho-related small GTP-binding protein Cdc42 has a low intrinsic GTPase activity that is significantly enhanced by its specific GTPase-activating protein, Cdc42GAP. In this report, we present the tertiary structure for the aluminum fluoride-promoted complex between Cdc42 and a catalytically active domain of Cdc42GAP as well as the complex between Cdc42 and the catalytically compromised Cdc42GAP(R305A) mutant. These structures, which mimic the transition state for the GTP hydrolytic reaction, show the presence of an AIF3 molecule, as was seen for the corresponding Ras-p120RasGAP complex, but in contrast to what has been reported for the Rho-Cdc42GAP complex or for heterotrimeric G protein alpha subunits, where AIF4- was observed. The Cdc42GAP stabilizes both the switch I and switch II domains of Cdc42 and contributes a highly conserved arginine (Arg 305) to the active site. Comparison of the structures for the wild type and mutant Cdc42GAP complexes provides important insights into the GAP-catalyzed GTP hydrolytic reaction.
9848648	The snRNP-free U1A (SF-A) complex(es): identification of the largest subunit as PSF, the polypyrimidine-tract binding protein-associated splicing factor.	We have previously shown that a specific monoclonal antibody prepared against the U1A protein, MAb 12E12, is unique in its ability to recognize a form of U1A which is not associated with the U1snRNP. This unique form of U1A, termed snRNP-free U1A or SF-A, was found to be complexed with a novel set of non-snRNP proteins (O'Connor et al., 1997, RNA 3:1444-1455). Here we demonstrate that the largest protein in these SF-A complex(es), p105, is the polypyrimidine-tract binding protein-associated factor (PSF), an auxiliary splicing factor. We show that PSF copurifies and co-immunoprecipitates with SF-A from 293T cell nucleoplasm and that it interacts with SF-A in vitro. In addition, we show that MAb 12E12 inhibits both splicing and polyadenylation in an in vitro coupled splicing and polyadenylation reaction. This suggests that SF-A and/or the SF-A complex(es) perform an important function in both processing reactions and possibly in last exon definition.
9858607	Rb inhibits the intrinsic kinase activity of TATA-binding protein-associated factor TAFII250.	The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein, Rb, interacts directly with the largest TATA-binding protein-associated factor, TAFII250, through multiple regions in each protein. To define the potential role(s) of this interaction, we examined whether Rb could regulate the intrinsic, bipartite kinase activity of TAFII250. Here, we report that Rb is able to inhibit the kinase activity of immunopurified and gel-purified recombinant TAFII250. Rb inhibits the autophosphorylation of TAFII250 as well as its phosphorylation of the RAP74 subunit of TFIIF in a dose-responsive manner. Inhibition of TAFII250 kinase activity involves the Rb pocket (amino acids 379 to 928) but not its amino terminus. In addition, Rb appears to specifically inhibit the amino-terminal kinase domain of TAFII250 through a direct protein-protein interaction. We further demonstrate that two different tumor-derived Rb pocket mutants, C706F and Deltaex22, are functionally defective for kinase inhibition, even though they are able to bind the amino terminus of TAFII250. Our results suggest a novel mechanism of transcriptional regulation by Rb, involving direct interaction with TAFII250 and inhibition of its ability to phosphorylate itself, RAP74, and possibly other targets.
9869635	Molecular interactions between Vestigial and Scalloped promote wing formation in Drosophila.	Scalloped (Sd) and Vestigial (Vg) are each needed for Drosophila wing development. We show that Sd is required for Vg function and that altering their relative cellular levels inhibits wing formation. In vitro, Vg binds directly to both Sd and its human homolog, Transcription Enhancer Factor-1. The interaction domains map to a small region of Vg that is essential for Vg-mediated gene activation and to the carboxy-terminal half of Sd. Our observations indicate that Vg and Sd function coordinately to control the expression of genes required for wing development, which implies that Vg is a tissue-specific transcriptional intermediary factor of Sd.
9874765	CIR, a corepressor linking the DNA binding factor CBF1 to the histone deacetylase complex.	CBF1 is a member of the CSL family of DNA binding factors, which mediate either transcriptional repression or transcriptional activation. CSL proteins play a central role in Notch signaling and in Epstein-Barr virus-induced immortalization. Notch is a transmembrane protein involved in cell-fate decisions, and the cytoplasmic domain of Notch (NotchIC) targets CBF1. The Epstein-Barr virus-immortalizing protein EBNA2 activates both cellular and viral gene expression by targeting CBF1 and mimicking NotchIC. We have examined the mechanism of CBF1-mediated repression and show that CBF1 binds to a unique corepressor, CBF1 interacting corepressor (CIR). A CIR homolog is encoded by Caenorhabditis elegans, indicating that CIR is evolutionarily conserved. Two CBF1 mutants that were unable to bind CIR did not function as repressors, suggesting that targeting of CIR to CBF1 is an important component of repression. When expressed as a Gal4 fusion protein, CIR repressed reporter gene expression. CIR binds to histone deacetylase and to SAP30 and serves as a linker between CBF1 and the histone deacetylase complex.
9874787	A bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) system: application to interacting circadian clock proteins.	We describe a method for assaying protein interactions that offers some attractive advantages over previous assays. This method, called bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET), uses a bioluminescent luciferase that is genetically fused to one candidate protein, and a green fluorescent protein mutant fused to another protein of interest. Interactions between the two fusion proteins can bring the luciferase and green fluorescent protein close enough for resonance energy transfer to occur, thus changing the color of the bioluminescent emission. By using proteins encoded by circadian (daily) clock genes from cyanobacteria, we use the BRET technique to demonstrate that the clock protein KaiB interacts to form homodimers. BRET should be particularly useful for testing protein interactions within native cells, especially with integral membrane proteins or proteins targeted to specific organelles.
9880500	The Escherichia coli MutL protein physically interacts with MutH and stimulates the MutH-associated endonuclease activity.	All possible pairwise combinations of UvrD, MutL, MutS, and MutH were tested using the yeast two-hybrid system to identify potential interactions involving mismatch repair proteins. A two-hybrid screen previously identified a physical interaction between MutL and UvrD. Although several other known interactions were not observed, a novel interaction between MutL and MutH was detected. A series of truncations from the NH2 and COOH termini of MutL demonstrated that the COOH-terminal 218 amino acids were sufficient for the two-hybrid interaction with MutH. Removal of a small number of residues from either the NH2 or COOH termini of MutH eliminated the two-hybrid interaction with MutL. Protein affinity chromatography experiments confirmed that MutL, but not MutS, physically associates with MutH. Furthermore, MutL greatly stimulated the d(GATC)-specific endonuclease activity of MutH in the absence of MutS and a mispaired base. Stimulation of the MutH-associated endonuclease activity by MutL was dependent on ATP binding but not ATP hydrolysis. Further stimulation of this reaction by MutS required the presence of a DNA mismatch and a hydrolyzable form of ATP. These results suggest that MutL activates the MutH-associated endonuclease activity through a physical interaction during methyl-directed mismatch repair in Escherichia coli.
9883737	PDZ proteins bind, cluster, and synaptically colocalize with Eph receptors and their ephrin ligands.	Localizing cell surface receptors to specific subcellular positions can be critical for their proper functioning, as most notably demonstrated at neuronal synapses. PDZ proteins apparently play critical roles in such protein localizations. Receptor tyrosine kinases have not been previously shown to interact with PDZ proteins in vertebrates. We report that Eph receptors and their membrane-linked ligands all contain PDZ recognition motifs and can bind and be clustered by PDZ proteins. In addition, we find that Eph receptors and ligands colocalize with PDZ proteins at synapses. Thus, PDZ proteins may play critical roles in localizing vertebrate receptor tyrosine kinases and/or their ligands and may be particularly important for Eph function in guidance or patterning or at the synapse.
9914379	Regulation of tubulin polypeptides and microtubule function: Luv1p [correction of Rki1p] interacts with the beta-tubulin binding protein Rbl2p.	Genetic analysis of microtubule functions in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae suggests that cells manage the levels and activities of the tubulin polypeptides. These reactions may be involved in protein folding, formation of the heterodimer, and maintenance of the appropriate balance between alpha- and beta-tubulin. One protein involved in these functions is Rbl2p, which forms a complex with beta-tubulin. Here we describe the identification of a novel yeast gene, LUV1 [corrected], that interacts genetically with RBL2. Deletion of rki1 causes conditional defects in microtubule assembly and cell growth. Luv1p [corrected] can be isolated in a complex containing Rbl2p. The results support the existence of cellular mechanisms for regulating microtubule function through the tubulin polypeptides.
9922454	Ordering the cytochrome c-initiated caspase cascade: hierarchical activation of caspases-2, -3, -6, -7, -8, and -10 in a caspase-9-dependent manner.	Exit of cytochrome c from mitochondria into the cytosol has been implicated as an important step in apoptosis. In the cytosol, cytochrome c binds to the CED-4 homologue, Apaf-1, thereby triggering Apaf-1-mediated activation of caspase-9. Caspase-9 is thought to propagate the death signal by triggering other caspase activation events, the details of which remain obscure. Here, we report that six additional caspases (caspases-2, -3, -6, -7, -8, and -10) are processed in cell-free extracts in response to cytochrome c, and that three others (caspases-1, -4, and -5) failed to be activated under the same conditions. In vitro association assays confirmed that caspase-9 selectively bound to Apaf-1, whereas caspases-1, -2, -3, -6, -7, -8, and -10 did not. Depletion of caspase-9 from cell extracts abrogated cytochrome c-inducible activation of caspases-2, -3, -6, -7, -8, and -10, suggesting that caspase-9 is required for all of these downstream caspase activation events. Immunodepletion of caspases-3, -6, and -7 from cell extracts enabled us to order the sequence of caspase activation events downstream of caspase-9 and reveal the presence of a branched caspase cascade. Caspase-3 is required for the activation of four other caspases (-2, -6, -8, and -10) in this pathway and also participates in a feedback amplification loop involving caspase-9.
10212242	Stress-activated protein kinase-3 interacts with the PDZ domain of alpha1-syntrophin. A mechanism for specific substrate recognition.	Mechanisms for selective targeting to unique subcellular sites play an important role in determining the substrate specificities of protein kinases. Here we show that stress-activated protein kinase-3 (SAPK3, also called ERK6 and p38gamma), a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family that is abundantly expressed in skeletal muscle, binds through its carboxyl-terminal sequence -KETXL to the PDZ domain of alpha1-syntrophin. SAPK3 phosphorylates alpha1-syntrophin at serine residues 193 and 201 in vitro and phosphorylation is dependent on binding to the PDZ domain of alpha1-syntrophin. In skeletal muscle SAPK3 and alpha1-syntrophin co-localize at the neuromuscular junction, and both proteins can be co-immunoprecipitated from transfected COS cell lysates. Phosphorylation of a PDZ domain-containing protein by an associated protein kinase is a novel mechanism for determining both the localization and the substrate specificity of a protein kinase.
10381623	A novel adenovirus E1B19K-binding protein B5 inhibits apoptosis induced by Nip3 by forming a heterodimer through the C-terminal hydrophobic region.	The adenovirus E1B19K protein inhibits apoptosis induced by E1A and other divergent signals. The cellular proteins that interact with E1B19K have been analyzed by isolating cDNA clones by the yeast two hybrid system. One of these clones encodes B5 which consists of 219 amino acid residues and contains the putative BH3 and transmembrane regions. B5 binds strongly to Nip3 and itself, weakly to E1B19K, but not to Bcl-2 and localizes in nuclear envelope, endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. B5 has sequence homology with Nip3 in the middle and C-terminal regions, but not in the N-terminal region. Unlike other E1B19K binding BH3 proteins so far characterized, B5 does not induce apoptosis, but inhibits apoptosis induced by Nip3. However the deletion mutant B5Delta1-31 lacking the N-terminus does induce apoptosis, although weaker than does Nip3, suggesting that the N-terminal region is masking the apoptosis-inducing capacity of B5.
10393239	Interaction between the two ubiquitously expressed transcription factors NF-Y and Sp1.	The regulation of the rat fatty acid synthase gene by mediators such as diet, hormones, cAMP, sterols or retinoic acid is controlled by three NF-Y binding sites. All three sites have a neighbouring Sp1-binding GC-box. This NF-Y/Sp1 motif is conserved in the FAS promoters of rat, human, goose and chicken. We have previously shown cooperative binding of NF-Y and Sp1 to the promoter region at -500 coincident with a diet-induced DNAse I-hypersensitive site. Here, we show an in-vivo interaction of NF-YA with Sp1 using the yeast two-hybrid system. The interacting domains are located between amino acids 55 and 139 of the NF-Y subunit NF-YA and between amino acids 139 and 344 of Sp1. In addition, we show by co-immunoprecipitation direct interaction of NF-Y subunit NF-YA with Sp1 in extracts of rat hepatoma cells H4IIE. Furthermore, we demonstrate by the GST pull-down assay that NF-YA interacts physically with Sp1 in-vitro in the absence of DNA. Therefore, NF-Y can be added to the list of transcription factors interacting with Sp1.
10446181	mGrb10 interacts with Nedd4.	We have utilized the yeast two-hybrid system to identify proteins interacting with mouse Grb10, an adapter protein known to interact with both the insulin and the insulin-like growth factor-I receptors. We have isolated a mouse cDNA clone containing the C2 domain of mouse Nedd4, a ubiquitin protein ligase (E3) that also contains a hect (homologous to the E6-AP carboxyl-terminus) domain and three WW domains. The interaction with Grb10 in the two-hybrid system was confirmed using the full-length Nedd4, and it was abolished by deleting the last 148 amino acids of Grb10, a region that includes the SH2 domain and the newly identified BPS domain. The interaction between Grb10 and Nedd4 was also reproduced in vivo in mouse embryo fibroblasts, where endogenous Nedd4 co-immunoprecipitated constitutively with both the endogenous and an overexpressed Grb10. This interaction was Ca(2+)-independent. Grb10 interacting with Nedd4 was not ubiquitinated in vivo, raising the possibility that this interaction may be used to target other proteins, like tyrosine kinase receptors, for ubiquitination.
10451365	Interaction of the soluble recombinant PsaD subunit of spinach photosystem I with ferredoxin I.	Photosystem I of higher plants functions in photosynthesis as a light-driven oxidoreductase producing reduced ferredoxin. Its peripheral subunit PsaD has been identified as the docking site for ferredoxin I. With the aim of elucidating the structure-function relationship and the role of this subunit, a recombinant form of the spinach protein was produced by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. The PsaD protein was synthesized in soluble form and purified to homogeneity. The interaction of the PsaD subunit with ferredoxin I was investigated using three different approaches: chemical cross-linking between the two purified proteins in solution, affinity chromatography of the PsaD subunit on a ferredoxin-coupled resin, and titration with ferredoxin of the protein fluorescence of the subunit. All these studies indicated that the isolated PsaD in solution has a definite conformation and maintains the ability to bind ferredoxin I with high affinity and specificity. The Kd value of the complex of PsaD and ferredoxin is in the nanomolar range, which is consistent with reported Km values for ferredoxin I photoreduction by thylakoid membranes. The ionic strength dependence of the K(d) suggests that the protein-protein interaction is at least partially electrostatic in nature. Nevertheless, none of the glutamate residues of the acidic cluster of residues 92-94 of ferredoxin I, which have been reported to be involved in the interaction with the subunit, seems to be essential for PsaD binding, as borne out by experiments using ferredoxin I mutants in positions 92-94.
10518217	A novel cofactor for p300 that regulates the p53 response.	The ability of p53 to function as a transcription factor is instrumental in facilitating the response to cellular stress, and p300/CBP proteins, which act as coactivators for diverse transcription factors, participate in regulating p53 activity. We report a novel cofactor for p300 that facilitates the p53 response by augmenting p53-dependent transcription and apoptosis. JMY and p300 associate in physiological conditions, and, during the cellular stress response, the p300/JMY complex is recruited to activated p53. The bax gene is efficiently activated by JMY, and protein isoforms that arise through alternative splicing alter the functional outcome of the p53 response. The results provide compelling evidence that the p300/JMY coactivator complex plays a central role in facilitating the p53 response.
10523676	Molecular architecture of the mouse DNA polymerase alpha-primase complex.	The DNA polymerase alpha-primase complex is the only enzyme that provides RNA-DNA primers for chromosomal DNA replication in eukaryotes. Mouse DNA polymerase alpha has been shown to consist of four subunits, p180, p68, p54, and p46. To characterize the domain structures and subunit requirements for the assembly of the complex, we constructed eukaryotic polycistronic cDNA expression plasmids expressing pairwise the four subunits of DNA polymerase alpha. In addition, the constructs contained an internal ribosome entry site derived from poliovirus. The constructs were transfected in different combinations with vectors expressing single subunits to allow the simultaneous expression of three or four of the subunits in cultured mammalian cells. We demonstrate that the carboxyl-terminal region of p180 (residues 1235 to 1465) is essential for its interaction with both p68 and p54-p46 by immunohistochemical analysis and coprecipitation studies with antibodies. Mutations in the putative zinc fingers present in the carboxyl terminus of p180 abolished the interaction with p68 completely, although the mutants were still capable of interacting with p54-p46. Furthermore, the amino-terminal region (residues 1 to 329) and the carboxyl-terminal region (residues 1280 to 1465) were revealed to be dispensable for DNA polymerase activity. Thus, we can divide the p180 subunit into three domains. The first is the amino-terminal domain (residues 1 to 329), which is dispensable for both polymerase activity and subunit assembly. The second is the minimal core domain (residues 330 to 1279), required for polymerase activity. The third is the carboxyl-terminal domain (residues 1280 to 1465), which is dispensable for polymerase activity but required for the interaction with the other three subunits. Taken together, these results allow us to propose the first structural model for the DNA polymerase alpha-primase complex in terms of subunit assembly, domain structure, and stepwise formation at the cellular level.
10523841	Interaction of the fork head domain transcription factor MPP2 with the human papilloma virus 16 E7 protein: enhancement of transformation and transactivation.	The high risk human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 E7 protein affects cell growth control and promotes transformation by interfering with functions of cellular proteins. A key target of E7 is the tumor suppressor protein p105RB. Although this interaction is required for E7-dependent transformation, other cellular molecules must also be involved, because some E7 mutants that have reduced transforming abilities still bind to p105RB. In order to identify additional proteins that interact with E7 and that may be responsible to mediate its transforming function, we have used the C-terminal half of E7 in a yeast two-hybrid screen. We identified the fork head domain transcription factor M phase phosphoprotein 2 (MPP2) as an interaction partner of E7. Specific interaction of the two proteins both in vitro and in vivo in mammalian cells was detected. The interaction of MPP2 with E7 is functionally relevant since MPP2 enhances the E7/Ha-Ras co-transformation of rat embryo fibroblasts. In addition HPV16 E7, but neither non-transforming mutants of HPV16 E7 nor low risk HPV6 E7, was able to stimulate MPP2-specific transcriptional activity. Thus, MPP2 is a potentially important target for E7-mediated transformation.
10564661	Characterization of the human suppressor of fused, a negative regulator of the zinc-finger transcription factor Gli.	Drosophila Suppressor of fused (Su(fu)) encodes a novel 468-amino-acid cytoplasmic protein which, by genetic analysis, functions as a negative regulator of the Hedgehog segment polarity pathway. Here we describe the primary structure, tissue distribution, biochemical and functional analyses of a human Su(fu) (hSu(fu)). Two alternatively spliced isoforms of hSu(fu) were identified, predicting proteins of 433 and 484 amino acids, with a calculated molecular mass of 48 and 54 kDa, respectively. The two proteins differ only by the inclusion or exclusion of a 52-amino-acid extension at the carboxy terminus. Both isoforms were expressed in multiple embryonic and adult tissues, and exhibited a developmental profile consistent with a role in Hedgehog signaling. The hSu(fu) contains a high-scoring PEST-domain, and exhibits an overall 37% sequence identity (63% similarity) with the Drosophila protein and 97% sequence identity with the mouse Su(fu). The hSu(fu) locus mapped to chromosome 10q24-q25, a region which is deleted in glioblastomas, prostate cancer, malignant melanoma and endometrial cancer. HSu(fu) was found to repress activity of the zinc-finger transcription factor Gli, which mediates Hedgehog signaling in vertebrates, and to physically interact with Gli, Gli2 and Gli3 as well as with Slimb, an F-box containing protein which, in the fly, suppresses the Hedgehog response, in part by stimulating the degradation of the fly Gli homologue. Coexpression of Slimb with Su(fu) potentiated the Su(fu)-mediated repression of Gli. Taken together, our data provide biochemical and functional evidence for the hypothesis that Su(fu) is a key negative regulator in the vertebrate Hedgehog signaling pathway. The data further suggest that Su(fu) can act by binding to Gli and inhibiting Gli-mediated transactivation as well as by serving as an adaptor protein, which links Gli to the Slimb-dependent proteasomal degradation pathway.
10567391	The role of human MBF1 as a transcriptional coactivator.	Multiprotein bridging factor 1 (MBF1) is a coactivator which mediates transcriptional activation by interconnecting the general transcription factor TATA element-binding protein and gene-specific activators such as the Drosophila nuclear receptor FTZ-F1 or the yeast basic leucine zipper protein GCN4. The human homolog of MBF1 (hMBF1) has been identified but its function, especially in transcription, remains unclear. Here we report the cDNA cloning and functional analysis of hMBF1. Two isoforms, which we term hMBF1alpha and hMBF1beta, have been identified. hMBF1alpha mRNA was detected in a number of tissues, whereas hMBF1beta exhibited tissue-specific expression. Both isoforms bound to TBP and Ad4BP/SF-1, a mammalian counterpart of FTZ-F1, and mediated Ad4BP/SF-1-dependent transcriptional activation. While hMBF1 was detected in the cytoplasm by immunostaining, coexpression of the nuclear protein Ad4BP/SF-1 with hMBF1 induced accumulation of hMBF1 in the nucleus, suggesting that hMBF1 is localized in the nucleus through its binding to Ad4BP/SF-1. hMBF1 also bound to ATF1, a member of the basic leucine zipper protein family, and mediated its activity as a transcriptional activator. These data establish that the coactivator MBF1 is functionally conserved in eukaryotes.
10572067	Dominance of ErbB-1 heterodimers in lung epithelial cells overexpressing ErbB-2. Both ErbB-1 and ErbB-2 contribute significantly to tumorigenicity.	This article examines differential expression and heterodimer formation of ErbB family members in tumorigenic and nontumorigenic human bronchial epithelial cells (HBECs). This cell system was developed previously as a model for lung adenocarcinoma by overexpression of c-erbB-2 in nontumorigenic, T antigen-immortalized HBECs. Earlier studies demonstrated that a tumorigenic clone from T antigen-immortalized nontumorigenic cells overexpressing ErbB-2 endogenously produced high levels of transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, and that reducing TGF-alpha by 93% eliminated tumorigenicity. In the present report, comparison of ErbB species between the tumorigenic cells (E6T) and their nontumorigenic derivatives (E6TA) demonstrated all four receptors in both cell types. However, in E6TA cells, ErbB-3 and -4 were present primarily in ErbB-1 heterodimers, suggesting that ErbB-1 is a preferred heterodimer partner within this cell system, expressing endogenous ErbB receptors and ligands and overexpressing ErbB-2. The ErbB-1/-2 species was present at high levels in E6T and absent in E6TA cells. Mitogen-activated protein kinase activity was elevated in E6T relative to E6TA. Elevated activity was eliminated by blocking surface expression of either ErbB-1 or ErbB-2. Endoplasmic reticulum trapping of ErbB-1 eliminated tumorigenicity, whereas ErbB-2 internalization was selected against during tumor formation. These data demonstrate the importance of TGF-alpha-mediated signaling through the ErbB-1/-2 heterodimer in development of the tumorigenic phenotype. This work further suggests that ErbB-3 and -4 species may also contribute to tumorigenic conversion and that their expression levels may be increased by signaling initiated by TGF-alpha.
10597290	Nmi protein interacts with regions that differ between MycN and Myc and is localized in the cytoplasm of neuroblastoma cells in contrast to nuclear MycN.	Myc family proteins play an important role in cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and transformation. A number of interaction partners of Myc have been identified, such as Max, p107, TBP, YY1, Miz-1, AP-2 and Nmi. Both Max and Nmi also bind to MycN. In contrast to the well defined binding of Max to Myc family proteins the interaction of Nmi with Myc or MycN is only poorly characterized. By employing the yeast two-hybrid system we have mapped the regions of MycN and Myc responsible for binding to Nmi. For MycN exclusively a central region mediates binding to Nmi. In contrast, for Myc a C-terminal portion of the protein, and possibly also a central part, is involved in Nmi interaction. Nmi does not interact with Max and has no transactivation capabilities in yeast, suggesting that Nmi alone is not a transcriptional activator in mammalian cells. Immunofluorescence demonstrates that both in 293 embryonic kidney cells and in Kelly neuroblastoma cells all detectable ectopically expressed Nmi is localized in the cytoplasm, in part in a punctate, granular pattern. MycN, which is highly expressed in Kelly cells consequent to amplification, appears to be localized exclusively in the nuclei. This directly demonstrates that in the same cell at least the major proportion of MycN and Nmi is localized in different cellular compartments. This result is confirmed by the finding that endogenous Nmi, which is expressed in Kelly cells only after stimulation with interferon gamma, is detected exclusively in the cytoplasm of these cells. Therefore only a very small amount of MycN and Nmi is likely to be involved in MycN/Nmi interaction in vivo.
2119582	Transforming growth factor-beta bound to soluble derivatives of the beta amyloid precursor protein of Alzheimer's disease.	Transforming growth factors beta (TGF beta) are multifunctional polypeptides that participate in regulation of growth, differentiation and function of many cell types. The mature TGF beta molecule is a 25 kDa protein composed of two 12.5 kDa monomers linked by disulfide bonds. Human glioblastoma cells secrete biologically active TGF beta 2. Here we report that in addition to the free form of TGF beta 2, a stable complex between a approximately 110 kDa binding protein and TGF beta 2 was isolated from glioblastoma cell supernatant. This binding protein was purified and was found to show sequence identity to part of the beta amyloid precursor protein (beta APP), to be specifically labeled by several different antisera to beta APP, and to be affinity labeled with TGF beta by crosslinking. The complex formation between TGF beta and beta APP may have important implications in regulation of biological activity of the two proteins and in delivery or clearance of TGF beta and beta APP in the brain and other compartments.
2722838	Purified human erythrocyte pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase. Preferential oxidation of NADPH.	Pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase catalyzes the final step in proline synthesis by NAD(P)H-dependent reduction of pyrroline-5-carboxylate. We have purified and characterized this enzyme from human erythrocytes. Purification to homogeneity (approximately 600,000-fold) was accomplished by sonication, ultracentrifugation, 2',5'-ADP-Sepharose affinity chromatography, and DEAE-Sephacel ion exchange chromatography. The enzyme runs as a single band of 30,000 Mr on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Sizing chromatography under nondenaturating conditions demonstrates activity in the 300,000-350,000 Mr range, suggesting that the native enzyme exists as a 10- to 12-mer. The purified enzyme exhibits kinetic characteristics similar to those previously described for whole red cell homogenates. The Vmax is 10-fold higher and the Km for pyrroline-5-carboxylate is 7-fold higher with NADH versus NADPH as cofactor. The affinity for NADPH is 15-fold higher than that for NADH. Erythrocyte pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase is competitively inhibited by NADP+. Unlike the enzyme from some other sources, erythrocyte pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase is not inhibited by proline or ATP. Double label studies using [14C]pyrroline-5-carboxylate and [3H]exNADPH in the presence of both NADH and NADPH were performed to determine the preferred source of reducing equivalents. In the presence of physiologic concentrations of pyrroline-5-carboxylate and both pyridine nucleotides, all of the reducing equivalents came from NADPH. We suggest that, in some cell types including human erythrocytes, a physiologic function of pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase is the generation of NADP+.
2839507	The STE2 gene product is the ligand-binding component of the alpha-factor receptor of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The STE2 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a 431-residue protein containing seven hydrophobic segments that is thought to be an essential component of the cell-surface receptor for alpha-factor in MATa haploids. Methods were devised to prepare membrane fractions from MATa cells that retained high levels of alpha-factor binding activity, consistent with the view that the alpha-factor receptor resides in the plasma membrane. To demonstrate that the membrane constituent responsible for alpha-factor binding was the STE2 polypeptide, specific antibodies were generated and used to identify STE2-related polypeptides by radiolabeling, immunoprecipitation, and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Under conditions of complete solubilization, the major form of the STE2 gene product detected was a glycoprotein with an apparent molecular weight of 49,000. Affinity labeling of yeast membrane preparations by chemical cross-linking to 35S-alpha-factor indicated that a molecule of 49,000 molecular weight was the major alpha-factor-binding species. This alpha-factor-binding species was shown to be the product of the STE2 gene in three ways. First, MATa haploids carrying the STE2 gene on a multicopy plasmid overproduced alpha-factor binding activity about 15-fold. Second, MATa cells completely lacking a STE2 gene showed only nonspecific binding of alpha-factor (equivalent to the level displayed by MAT alpha haploids) and possessed no species that could be cross-linked to 35S-alpha-factor. Third, MATa cells expressing a truncated but functional STE2 gene (in which the COOH-terminal 135-hydrophilic residues were deleted) produced a protein detected by cross-linking to 35S-alpha-factor of apparent molecular weight 33,000, close to the size expected for the predicted abbreviated STE2 polypeptide. These findings demonstrate unequivocally that the STE2 gene product is the membrane component responsible for the ligand recognition function of the yeast alpha-factor receptor.
7851759	Protein-protein interactions in the yeast pheromone response pathway: Ste5p interacts with all members of the MAP kinase cascade.	We have used the two-hybrid system of Fields and Song to identify protein-protein interactions that occur in the pheromone response pathway of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Pathway components Ste4p, Ste5p, Ste7p, Ste11p, Ste12p, Ste20p, Fus3p and Kss1p were tested in all pairwise combinations. All of the interactions we detected involved at least one member of the MAP kinase cascade that is a central element of the response pathway. Ste5p, a protein of unknown biochemical function, interacted with protein kinases that operate at each step of the MAP kinase cascade, specifically with Ste11p (an MEKK), Ste7p (an MEK), and Fus3p (a MAP kinase). This finding suggests that one role of Ste5p is to serve as a scaffold to facilitate interactions among members of the kinase cascade. In this role as facilitator, Ste5p may make both signal propagation and signal attenuation more efficient. Ste5p may also help minimize cross-talk with other MAP kinase cascades and thus ensure the integrity of the pheromone response pathway. We also found that both Ste11p and Ste7p interact with Fus3p and Kss1p. Finally, we detected an interaction between one of the MAP kinases, Kss1p, and a presumptive target, the transcription factor Ste12p. We failed to detect interactions of Ste4p or Ste20p with any other component of the response pathway.
8062390	Ste5 tethers multiple protein kinases in the MAP kinase cascade required for mating in S. cerevisiae.	Ste5 is a Zn2+ finger-like protein thought to function before three kinases, Ste11 (a MEKK), Ste7 (a MEK), and Fus3 (a MAPK), in a conserved MAP kinase cascade required for mating in S. cerevisiae. Here, we present evidence that Ste5 forms a multikinase complex that joins these kinases for efficient Fus3 activation. By two-hybrid analysis, Ste11, Ste7, and Fus3 associate with different domains of Ste5, while Kss1, another MAPK, associates with the same domain as Fus3, thus implying that Ste5 simultaneously binds a MEKK, MEK, and MAPK. Ste5 copurifies with Ste11, Fus3, and a hypophosphorylated form of Ste7, and all four proteins cosediment in a glycerol gradient as if in a large complex. Ste5 also increases the amount of Ste11 complexed to Ste7 and Fus3 and is required for Ste11 to function. These results substantiate a novel signal transduction component that physically links multiple kinases within a single cascade.
8144501	Identification of the amino acids involved in the functional interaction between photosystem I and ferredoxin from Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 by chemical cross-linking.	Ferredoxin isolated from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 has been chemically cross-linked to purified photosystem I from the same organism. The reaction was catalyzed by N-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide in the presence of N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide. A short reaction time and neutral pH values can be used in the presence of the two reagents, ensuring the integrity of both of the proteins and the iron-sulfur cluster of the ferredoxin. The only covalent complex detected comprised ferredoxin and the photo-system I (PSI)-D subunit, as identified by antibodies probing after electrophoresis. Electron paramagnetic resonance measurements of this covalent complex have shown that the cross-linked ferredoxin was entirely photoreducible by photosystem I and that the molar ratio of ferredoxin to PSI was close to 1. Extensive sequencing of the peptides obtained after proteolysis of the purified cross-linked product led to the identification of a covalent bond between glutamic acid 93 of ferredoxin and lysine 106 of the PSI-D subunit.
8174709	Involvement of lysine-88 of spinach ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase in the interaction with ferredoxin.	A mutant of spinach ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase, in which Lys-88 has been changed to glutamine, has been obtained by site-directed mutagenesis. The mutant enzyme was fully active as a diaphorase, but partially impaired in ferredoxin-dependent cytochrome c reductase activity. By steady-state kinetics, the Km for ferredoxin of the K88Q enzyme was found to have increased 10-fold, whereas the kcat was unaffected by the amino acid replacement. The interaction between oxidized ferredoxin and the enzyme forms was also studied by spectrofluorimetric titration: Kd values of 110 and 10 nM were determined for the mutant and wild-type proteins, respectively. These data point out the importance of a positive charge at position 88 of the reductase for the interaction with ferredoxin, confirming previous cross-linking studies.
8524217	Met30p, a yeast transcriptional inhibitor that responds to S-adenosylmethionine, is an essential protein with WD40 repeats.	A specific repression mechanism regulates the biosynthesis of sulfur amino acids in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. When the intracellular S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) concentration increases, transcription of the sulfur genes is repressed. Using a specific reporter system, we have isolated mutations impairing the AdoMet-mediated transcriptional regulation of the sulfur network. These mutations identified a new gene, MET30, and were shown to also affect the regulation of the methyl cycle. The MET30 gene was isolated and sequenced. Sequence analysis reveals that Met30p contains five copies of the WD40 motif within its carboxy-terminal part, like the yeast transcriptional repressors Hir1p and Tup1p. We identified one target of Met30p as Met4p, a transcriptional activator regulating the sulfate assimilation pathway. By the two-hybrid method, we showed that Met30p interacts with Met4p and identified a region of Met4p involved in this interaction. Further analysis reveals that expression of Met30p is essential for cell viability.
8524874	GAIP, a protein that specifically interacts with the trimeric G protein G alpha i3, is a member of a protein family with a highly conserved core domain.	Using the yeast two-hybrid system we have identified a human protein, GAIP (G Alpha Interacting Protein), that specifically interacts with the heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein G alpha i3. Interaction was verified by specific binding of in vitro-translated G alpha i3 with a GAIP-glutathione S-transferase fusion protein. GAIP is a small protein (217 amino acids, 24 kDa) that contains two potential phosphorylation sites for protein kinase C and seven for casein kinase 2. GAIP shows high homology to two previously identified human proteins, GOS8 and 1R20, two Caenorhabditis elegans proteins, CO5B5.7 and C29H12.3, and the FLBA gene product in Aspergillus nidulans--all of unknown function. Significant homology was also found to the SST2 gene product in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that is known to interact with a yeast G alpha subunit (Gpa1). A highly conserved core domain of 125 amino acids characterizes this family of proteins. Analysis of deletion mutants demonstrated that the core domain is the site of GAIP's interaction with G alpha i3. GAIP is likely to be an early inducible phosphoprotein, as its cDNA contains the TTTTGT sequence characteristic of early response genes in its 3'-untranslated region. By Northern analysis GAIP's 1.6-kb mRNA is most abundant in lung, heart, placenta, and liver and is very low in brain, skeletal muscle, pancreas, and kidney. GAIP appears to interact exclusively with G alpha i3, as it did not interact with G alpha i2 and G alpha q. The fact that GAIP and Sst2 interact with G alpha subunits and share a common domain suggests that other members of the GAIP family also interact with G alpha subunits through the 125-amino-acid core domain.
8621497	Phosphorylation of the DNA polymerase alpha-primase B subunit is dependent on its association with the p180 polypeptide.	The B subunit of the DNA polymerase (pol) alpha-primase complex executes an essential role at the initial stage of DNA replication in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and is phosphorylated in a cell cycle-dependent manner. In this report, we show that the four subunits of the yeast DNA polymerase alpha-primase complex are assembled throughout the cell cycle, and physical association between newly synthesized pol alpha (p180) and unphosphorylated B subunit (p86) occurs very rapidly. Therefore, B subunit phosphorylation does not appear to modulate p180.p86 interaction. Conversely, by depletion experiments and by using a yeast mutant strain, which produces a low and constitutive level of the p180 polypeptide, we found that formation of the p180.p86 subcomplex is required for B subunit phosphorylation.
8641281	Characterization of a redox active cross-linked complex between cyanobacterial photosystem I and soluble ferredoxin.	A covalent stoichiometric complex between photosystem I (PSI) and ferredoxin from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 was generated by chemical cross-linking. The photoreduction of ferredoxin, studied by laser flash absorption spectroscopy between 460 and 600 nm, is a fast process in 60% of the covalent complexes, which exhibit spectral and kinetic properties very similar to those observed with the free partners. Two major phases with t(1/2) <1 micros and approximately 10-14 micros are observed at two different pH values (5.8 and 8.0). The remaining complexes do not undergo fast ferredoxin reduction and 20-25% of the complexes are still able to reduce free ferredoxin or flavodoxin efficiently, thus indicating that ferredoxin is not bound properly in this proportion of covalent complexes. The docking site of ferredoxin on PSI was determined by electron microscopy in combination with image analysis. Ferredoxin binds to the cytoplasmic side of PSI, with its mass center 77 angstroms distant from the center of the trimer and in close contact with a ridge formed by the subunits PsaC, PsaD and PsaE. This docking site corresponds to a close proximity between the [2Fe- 2S] center of ferredoxin and the terminal [4Fe-4S] acceptor FII of PSI and is very similar in position to the docking site of flavodoxin, an alternative electron acceptor of PSI.
8665859	A heteromeric complex containing the centromere binding factor 1 and two basic leucine zipper factors, Met4 and Met28, mediates the transcription activation of yeast sulfur metabolism.	Transcription activation of sulfur metabolism in yeast is dependent on two DNA binding factors, the centromere binding factor 1 (Cbf1) and Met4. While the role of Met4 was clearly established by showing that it acts as a transcription activator, the precise function in transcription of the multi-functional factor Cbf1 remains more elusive. We report here the identification of a new transcription factor Met28 which participates in the regulation of sulfur metabolism. Cloning and sequencing of MET28 revealed that it encodes a new member of the basic leucine zipper DNA binding factor family. We also demonstrate that Met28 possesses no intrinsic transcription activation capabilities. Studies of the DNA binding characteristics of Met28 led us to identify in gel mobility assays a heteromeric complex containing Cbf1, Met4 and Met28. We further demonstrated that the presence of Cbf1 and Met4 stimulates the binding of Met28 to DNA. 'Two-hybrid' studies allowed us to carry out preliminary investigations on the binary protein-protein interactions involved in the formation of the Cbf1-Met4-Met28 complex. Our results give evidence that the leucine zippers of Met4 and Met28, along with the basic helix-loop-helix domain of Cbf1, provide the protein surfaces mediating these interactions. All these results suggest that the multi-functional factor Cbf1 functions in transcription activation by tethering specific activating factors to the DNA.
8668180	Signaling in the yeast pheromone response pathway: specific and high-affinity interaction of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases Kss1 and Fus3 with the upstream MAP kinase kinase Ste7.	Kss1 and Fus3 are mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs or ERKs), and Ste7 is their activating MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK), in the pheromone response pathway of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To investigate the potential role of specific interactions between these enzymes during signaling, their ability to associate with each other was examined both in solution and in vivo. When synthesized by in vitro translation, Kss1 and Fus3 could each form a tight complex (Kd of approximately 5 nM) with Ste7 in the absence of any additional yeast proteins. These complexes were specific because neither Hog1 nor Mpk1 (two other yeast MAPKs), nor mammalian Erk2, was able to associate detectably with Ste7. Neither the kinase catalytic core of Ste7 nor the phosphoacceptor regions of Ste7 and Kss1 were necessary for complex formation. Ste7-Kss1 (and Ste7-Fus3) complexes were present in yeast cell extracts and were undiminished in extracts prepared from a ste5delta-ste11delta double mutant strain. In Ste7-Kss1 (or Ste7-Fus3) complexes isolated from naive or pheromone-treated cells, Ste7 phosphorylated Kss1 (or Fus3), and Kss1 (or Fus3) phosphorylated Ste7, in a pheromone-stimulated manner; dissociation of the high-affinity complex was shown to be required for either phosphorylation event. Deletions of Ste7 in the region required for its stable association with Kss1 and Fus3 in vitro significantly decreased (but did not eliminate) signaling in vivo. These findings suggest that the high-affinity and active site-independent binding observed in vitro facilitates signal transduction in vivo and suggest further that MEK-MAPK interactions may utilize a double-selection mechanism to ensure fidelity in signal transmission and to insulate one signaling pathway from another.
8688561	Drosophila MCM protein complexes.	MCM genes encode a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins required for DNA replication. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, where they were first identified, MCM genes interact genetically with each other. Allele specificity in these interactions suggests that MCM proteins physically associate with one another and that this association is essential for function. We describe here an analysis of physical interactions among three Drosophila MCM proteins. Using specific antibodies we detect Drosophila MCMs almost exclusively in 600-kDa protein complexes. Co-immunoprecipitation data demonstrate the existence of at least two distinct types of 600-kDa complexes, one that contains DmCDC46 and one that appears to contain both DmMCM2 and Dpa (a CDC54 homologue). These complexes are stable throughout embryonic division cycles, are resistant to treatments with salt and detergent, and are present during development in tissues undergoing mitotic DNA replication as well as endoreplication. When extracts are prepared under low salt conditions all three MCM proteins co-immunoprecipitate. Consequently, we suggest that the 600-kDa complexes interact in a higher order complex.
8706131	SKP1 connects cell cycle regulators to the ubiquitin proteolysis machinery through a novel motif, the F-box.	We have identified the yeast and human homologs of the SKP1 gene as a suppressor of cdc4 mutants and as a cyclin F-binding protein. Skp1p indirectly binds cyclin A/Cdk2 through Skp2p, and directly binds Skp2p, cyclin F, and Cdc4p through a novel structural motif called the F-box. SKP1 is required for ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of Cin2p, Clb5p, and the Cdk inhibitor Sic1p, and provides a link between these molecules and the proteolysis machinery. A large number of proteins contain the F-box motif and are thereby implicated in the ubiquitin pathway. Different skp1 mutants arrest cells in either G1 or G2, suggesting a connection between regulation of proteolysis in different stages of the cycle.
8756677	Sst2, a negative regulator of pheromone signaling in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae: expression, localization, and genetic interaction and physical association with Gpa1 (the G-protein alpha subunit).	Sst2 is the prototype for the newly recognized RGS (for regulators of G-protein signaling) family. Cells lacking the pheromone-inducible SST2 gene product fail to resume growth after exposure to pheromone. Conversely, overproduction of Sst2 markedly enhanced the rate of recovery from pheromone-induced arrest in the long-term halo bioassay and detectably dampened signaling in a short-term assay of pheromone response (phosphorylation of Ste4, Gbeta subunit). When the GPA1 gene product (Galpha subunit) is absent, the pheromone response pathway is constitutively active and, consequently, growth ceases. Despite sustained induction of Sst2 (observed with specific anti-Sst2 antibodies), gpa1delta mutants remain growth arrested, indicating that the action of Sst2 requires the presence of Gpa1. The N-terminal domain (residues 3 to 307) of Sst2 (698 residues) has sequence similarity to the catalytic regions of bovine GTPase-activating protein and human neurofibromatosis tumor suppressor protein; segments in the C-terminal domain of Sst2 (between residues 417 and 685) are homologous to other RGS proteins. Both the N- and C-terminal domains were required for Sst2 function in vivo. Consistent with a role for Sst2 in binding to and affecting the activity of Gpa1, the majority of Sst2 was membrane associated and colocalized with Gpa1 at the plasma membrane, as judged by sucrose density gradient fractionation. Moreover, from cell extracts, Sst2 could be isolated in a complex with Gpa1 (expressed as a glutathione S-transferase fusion); this association withstood the detergent and salt conditions required for extraction of these proteins from cell membranes. Also, SST2+ cells expressing a GTPase-defective GPA1 mutant displayed an increased sensitivity to pheromone, whereas sst2 cells did not. These results demonstrate that Sst2 and Gpa1 interact physically and suggest that Sst2 is a direct negative regulator of Gpa1.
9109646	Identification by NMR of the binding surface for the histidine-containing phosphocarrier protein HPr on the N-terminal domain of enzyme I of the Escherichia coli phosphotransferase system.	The interaction between the approximately 30 kDa N-terminal domain of enzyme I (EIN) and the approximately 9.5 kDa histidine-containing phosphocarrier protein HPr of the Escherichia coli phosphoenolpyruvate:sugar phosphotransferase system has been investigated by heteronuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The complex is in fast exchange, permitting us to follow the chemical shift changes of the backbone NH and 15N resonances of EIN upon complex formation by recording a series of 1H-15N correlation spectra of uniformly 15N-labeled EIN in the presence of increasing amounts of HPr at natural isotopic abundance. The equilibrium association constant derived from analysis of the titration data is approximately 1.5 x 10(5) M(-1), and the lower limit for the dissociation rate constant is 1100 s(-1). By mapping the backbone chemical shift perturbations on the three-dimensional solution structure of EIN [Garrett, D. S., Seok, Y.-J., Liao, D.-I., Peterkofsky, A., Gronenborn, A. M., & Clore, G. M. (1997) Biochemistry 36, 2517-2530], we have identified the binding surface of EIN in contact with HPr. This surface is primarily located in the alpha domain and involves helices H1, H2, and H4, as well as the hinge region connecting helices H2 and H2'. The data also indicate that the active site His 15 of HPr must approach the active site His 189 of EIN along the shallow depression at the interface of the alpha and alpha/beta domains. Interestingly, both the backbone and side chain resonances (assigned from a long-range 1H-15N correlation spectrum) of His 189, which is located at the N-terminus of helix H6 in he alpha/beta domain, are only minimally perturbed upon complexation, indicating that His 189 (in the absence of phosphorylation) does not undergo any significant conformational change or change in pK(a) value upon HPr binding. On the basis of results of this study, as well as a previous study which delineated the interaction surface for EI on HPr [van Nuland, N. A. J., Boelens, R., Scheek, R. M., & Robillard, G. T. (1995) J. Mol. Biol. 246, 180-193], a model for the EIN/HPr complex is proposed in which helix 1 (residues 16-27) and the helical loop (residues 49-53) of HPr slip between the two pairs of helices constituting the alpha domain of EIN. In addition, we suggest a functional role for the kink between helices H2 and H2' of EIN, providing a flexible joint for this interaction to take place.
9162007	A cellular cofactor for the constitutive transport element of type D retrovirus.	A human nuclear protein that specifically interacts with the constitutive transport element (CTE) of simian retrovirus was identified as adenosine 5'-triphosphate-dependent RNA helicase A. This protein could bind to functional CTE but not to inactive CTE mutants. The interaction of helicase A with CTE was distinct from previously described helicase activity of this protein. Helicase A shuttled from the nucleus to the cytoplasm in the presence of a transcription inhibitor or in cells transiently overexpressing CTE-containing RNA. In vivo colocalization of helicase A and CTE was observed in experiments that combined in situ hybridization and immunostaining. These results suggest that helicase A plays a role in the nuclear export of CTE-containing RNA.
9175835	Tap: a novel cellular protein that interacts with tip of herpesvirus saimiri and induces lymphocyte aggregation.	Tip of herpesvirus saimiri associates with Lck and down-regulates Lck-mediated activation. We identified a novel cellular Tip-associated protein (Tap) by a yeast two-hybrid screen. Tap associated with Tip following transient expression in COS-1 cells and stable expression in human Jurkat-T cells. Expression of Tip and Tap in Jurkat-T cells induced dramatic cell aggregation. Aggregation was likely caused by the up-regulated surface expression of adhesion molecules including integrin alpha, L-selectin, ICAM-3, and H-CAM. Furthermore, NF-kappaB transcriptional factor of aggregated cells had approximately 40-fold higher activity than that of parental cells. Thus, Tap is likely to be an important cellular mediator of Tip function in T cell transformation by herpesvirus saimiri.
9271389	Luman, a new member of the CREB/ATF family, binds to herpes simplex virus VP16-associated host cellular factor.	The human host cell factor (HCF) is expressed in a variety of adult and fetal tissues, and its gene is conserved in animals as diverse as mammals and insects. However, its only known function is to stabilize the herpes simplex virus virion transactivator VP16 in a complex with the cellular POU domain protein Oct-1 and cis-acting regulatory elements in promoters of immediate-early viral genes. To identify a cellular function for HCF, we used the yeast two-hybrid system to identify a cellular ligand for HCF. This protein, Luman, appears to be a cyclic AMP response element (CRE)-binding protein/activating transcription factor 1 protein of the basic leucine zipper superfamily. It binds CREs in vitro and activates CRE-containing promoters when transfected into COS7 cells. This activation of transcription was synergistically enhanced by the presence of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein elements and inhibited by AP-1 elements in the promoter. In addition to a basic DNA binding domain, Luman possesses an unusually long leucine zipper and an acidic amino-terminal activation domain. These features in Luman are also present in what appear to be homologs in the mouse, Drosophila melanogaster, and Caenorhabditis elegans. Luman and VP16 appear to have similar mechanisms for binding HCF, as in vitro each competitively inhibited the binding of the other to HCF. In transfected cells, however, while VP16 strongly inhibited the ability of GAL-Luman to activate transcription from a GAL4 upstream activation sequence-containing promoter, Luman was unable to inhibit the activity of GAL-VP16. Luman appears to be a ubiquitous transcription factor, and its mRNA was detected in all human adult and fetal tissues examined. The possible role of HCF in regulating the function of this ubiquitous transcription factor is discussed.
9294197	Leukemia-associated retinoic acid receptor alpha fusion partners, PML and PLZF, heterodimerize and colocalize to nuclear bodies.	In acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), the typical t(15;17) and the rare t(11;17) translocations express, respectively, the PML/RARalpha and PLZF/RARalpha fusion proteins (where RARalpha is retinoic acid receptor alpha). Herein, we demonstrate that the PLZF and PML proteins interact with each other and colocalize onto nuclear bodies (NBs). Furthermore, induction of PML expression by interferons leads to a recruitment of PLZF onto NBs without increase in the levels of the PLZF protein. PML/RARalpha and PLZF/RARalpha localize to the same microspeckled nuclear domains that appear to be common targets for the two fusion proteins in APL. Although PLZF/RARalpha does not affect the localization of PML, PML/RARalpha delocalizes the endogenous PLZF protein in t(15;17)-positive NB4 cells, pointing to a hierarchy in the nuclear targeting of these proteins. Thus, our results unify the molecular pathogenesis of APL with at least two different RARalpha gene translocations and stress the importance of alterations of PLZF and RARalpha nuclear localizations in this disease.
9312054	The Cdc4/34/53 pathway targets Cdc6p for proteolysis in budding yeast.	The budding yeast Cdc6 protein (Cdc6p) is essential for formation of pre-replicative complexes (pre-RCs) at origins of DNA replication. Regulation of pre-RC assembly plays a key role in making initiation of DNA synthesis dependent upon passage through mitosis and in limiting DNA replication to once per cell cycle. Cdc6p is normally only present at high levels during the G1 phase of the cell cycle. This is partly because the CDC6 gene is only transcribed during G1. In this article we show that rapid degradation of Cdc6p also contributes to this periodicity. Cdc6p degradation rates are regulated during the cell cycle, reaching a peak during late G1/early S phase. Removal of a 47-amino-acid domain near the N-terminus of Cdc6p prevents degradation of Cdc6p. Likewise, mutations in the Cdc4/34/53 pathway involved in ubiquitin-mediated degradation block proteolysis and genetic evidence is presented indicating that the N-terminus of Cdc6p interacts with the Cdc4/34/53 pathway, probably through Cdc4p. A stable Cdc6p mutant which is no longer degraded by the Cdc4/34/53 pathway is, none the less, fully functional. Constitutive overexpression of either wild-type or stable Cdc6p does not induce re-replication and does not induce assembly of pre-replicative complexes after DNA replication is complete.
9428767	Interaction of a G-protein beta-subunit with a conserved sequence in Ste20/PAK family protein kinases.	Serine/threonine protein kinases of the Ste20/PAK family have been implicated in the signalling from heterotrimeric G proteins to mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase cascades. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Ste20 is involved in transmitting the mating-pheromone signal from the betagamma-subunits (encoded by the STE4 and STE18 genes, respectively) of a heterotrimeric G protein to a downstream MAP kinase cascade. We have identified a binding site for the G-protein beta-subunit (Gbeta) in the non-catalytic carboxy-terminal regions of Ste20 and its mammalian homologues, the p21-activated protein kinases (PAKs). Association of Gbeta with this site in Ste20 was regulated by binding of pheromone to the receptor. Mutations in Gbeta and Ste20 that prevented this association blocked activation of the MAP kinase cascade. Considering the high degree of structural and functional conservation of Ste20/PAK family members and G-protein subunits, our results provide a possible model for a role of these kinases in Gbetagamma-mediated signal transduction in organisms ranging from yeast to mammals.
9484778	Identification of homo- and heteromeric interactions between members of the breast carcinoma-associated D52 protein family using the yeast two-hybrid system.	The hD52 gene was originally identified through its elevated expression level in human breast carcinoma. Cloning of D52 homologues from other species has indicated that D52 may play roles in calcium-mediated signal transduction and cell proliferation. Two human homologues of hD52, hD53 and hD54, have also been identified, demonstrating the existence of a novel gene/protein family. Since D52-like protein sequences are all predicted to contain a coiled-coil domain, we used the yeast two-hybrid system and glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays to investigate whether homo- and/or heteromeric interactions occur between D52-like proteins. Analyses of yeast strains co-transfected with paired D52-like constructs indicated that D52-like fusion proteins interact in homo- and heteromeric fashions through their predicted coiled-coil domains. Similarly, extensive two-hybrid screenings of a human breast carcinoma expression library identified hD53 and hD52 as potential interactors for both hD52 and hD53 baits. Thus, D52-like proteins appear to exert and/or regulate their activities through specific interactions with other D52-like proteins, which in turn may be intrinsic to potential roles of these molecules in controlling cell proliferation.
9492303	Homodimers and heterodimers of Pho1-type phosphorylase isoforms in Solanum tuberosum L. as revealed by sequence-specific antibodies.	Higher plants possess two types of glucan phosphorylase (EC 2.4.1.1). One isozyme type, designated as Pho1, is located in the plastid whereas the other type, Pho2, is restricted to the cytosol. For Solanum tuberosum L. two Pho1 type phosphorylases have been sequenced [Nakano, K. & Fukui, T. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 8230-8236; Sonnewald, U., Basner, A., Greve, B. & Steup, M. (1995) Plant Mol. Biol. 27, 567-576]. Both proteins (referred to as Pho1a and Pho1b, respectively) are highly similar (81-84% amino acid identity over most parts of the two sequences) with the exception of the N-terminal transit peptide and the large insertion located between the N- and the C-terminal domains. In this communication antibodies that bind specifically to either Pho1a or Pho1b were used to study both isoforms at the protein level. The antibodies were applied to both potato tuber and leaf extracts following either denaturing or non-denaturing electrophoresis. Pho1a but not Pho1b was immunochemically detectable in tuber extracts whereas leaf extracts contained both the Pho1a and Pho1b protein. During denaturing electrophoresis the two antigens comigrated. When the leaf Pho1 isoforms were separated by affinity electrophoresis three bands of activity were resolved; all of them were recognized by the anti-Pho1a antibodies, but only two of these reacted with the anti-Pho1b antibodies. The isoform binding exclusively to the anti-Pho1a antibodies comigrated with the Pho1 isozyme from potato tubers. Immunoprecipitation experiments performed with anti-Pho1a antibodies removed the entire Pho1 phosphorylase activity from both tuber and leaf extracts. Addition of anti-Pho1b antibodies to tuber extracts did not affect the enzyme pattern, whereas in leaf extracts one isoform remained unchanged but the two other bands were strongly retarded. This indicates that the Pho1a protein is present in all three forms and Pho1b is associated with Pho1a. Association of Pho1a and Pho1b was further demonstrated by cross-linking experiments using bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate as linker. Immunoprecipitation experiments were also performed using extracts of transformed Escherichia coli cells that expressed either Pho1a or Pho1b or both simultaneously. Under these conditions a homodimeric Pho1b phosphorylase was observed that had a lower electrophoretic mobility than the heterodimer from leaves. In leaves of transgenic potato plants antisense inhibition of the Pho1a gene affected the formation of (Pho1a)2 more strongly than that of the heterodimer. Thus, in leaves, Pho1a exists both as a homodimer, (Pho1a)2 and as heterodimer, (Pho1a-Pho1b); a part of it appears to be covalently modified. Pho1b, in the homodimeric form, is often below the limit of detection. In tubers the homodimer, (Pho1a)2, is the only detectable Pho1-type enzyme. To our knowledge this is the first report on a heterodimeric structure of plant phosphorylase.
9499404	Cdc53 is a scaffold protein for multiple Cdc34/Skp1/F-box proteincomplexes that regulate cell division and methionine biosynthesis in yeast.	In budding yeast, ubiquitination of the cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor Sic1 is catalyzed by the E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme Cdc34 in conjunction with an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex composed of Skp1, Cdc53 and the F-box protein, Cdc4 (the SCFCdc4 complex). Skp1 binds a motif called the F-box and in turn F-box proteins appear to recruit specific substrates for ubiquitination. We find that Skp1 interacts with Cdc53 in vivo, and that Skp1 bridges Cdc53 to three different F-box proteins, Cdc4, Met30, and Grr1. Cdc53 contains independent binding sites for Cdc34 and Skp1 suggesting it functions as a scaffold protein within an E2/E3 core complex. F-box proteins show remarkable functional specificity in vivo: Cdc4 is specific for degradation of Sic1, Grr1 is specific for degradation of the G1 cyclin Cln2, and Met30 is specific for repression of methionine biosynthesis genes. In contrast, the Cdc34-Cdc53-Skp1 E2/E3 core complex is required for all three functions. Combinatorial control of SCF complexes may provide a basis for the regulation of diverse cellular processes.
9751710	Transcriptional repression by AML1 and LEF-1 is mediated by the TLE/Groucho corepressors.	The mammalian AML/CBFalpha runt domain (RD) transcription factors regulate hematopoiesis and osteoblast differentiation. Like their Drosophila counterparts, most mammalian RD proteins terminate in a common pentapeptide, VWRPY, which serves to recruit the corepressor Groucho (Gro). Using a yeast two-hybrid assay, in vitro association and pull-down experiments, we demonstrate that Gro and its mammalian homolog TLE1 specifically interact with AML1 and AML2. In addition to the VWRPY motif, other C-terminal sequences are required for these interactions with Gro/TLE1. TLE1 inhibits AML1-dependent transactivation of the T cell receptor (TCR) enhancers alpha and beta, which contain functional AML binding sites, in transfected Jurkat T cells. LEF-1 is an additional transcription factor that mediates transactivation of TCR enhancers. LEF-1 and its Drosophila homolog Pangolin (Pan) are involved in the Wnt/Wg signaling pathway through interactions with the coactivator beta-catenin and its highly conserved fly homolog Armadillo (Arm). We show that TLE/Gro interacts with LEF-1 and Pan, and inhibits LEF-1:beta-catenin-dependent transcription. These data indicate that, in addition to their activity as transcriptional activators, AML1 and LEF-1 can act, through recruitment of the corepressor TLE1, as transcriptional repressors in TCR regulation and Wnt/Wg signaling.
9799240	Multiple transcriptional activation complexes tether the yeast activator Met4 to DNA.	The transcriptional regulation of the sulfur amino acid pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae depends on a single activator, Met4p, whose function requires different combinations of the auxiliary factors Cbf1p, Met28p, Met31p and Met32p. The first description of how these factors cooperate to activate transcription was provided by the identification of the Cbf1-Met4-Met28 complex which is assembled on the regulatory region of the MET16 gene. In this paper, we demonstrate that other pathways are used to recruit Met4p on the 5' upstream region of the two genes, MET3 and MET28. In these cases, Met4p is tethered to DNA through two alternative complexes associating Met4p with Met28p and either Met31p or Met32p. These complexes are formed over the AAACTGTG sequence, a cis-acting element found upstream of several MET genes. The identification of a domain within Met4p that mediates its interaction with Met31p and Met32p allowed in vivo analysis of the specificity of the Met4p-containing complexes. The results therefore demonstrate that the co-regulation of a single gene network may be gained through different molecular mechanisms. In addition the sulfur system exacerbates the structural variety of the nucleoprotein complexes in which a single bZIP factor can be engaged.
9819391	ASAP1, a phospholipid-dependent arf GTPase-activating protein that associates with and is phosphorylated by Src.	Membrane trafficking is regulated in part by small GTP-binding proteins of the ADP-ribosylation factor (Arf) family. Arf function depends on the controlled exchange and hydrolysis of GTP. We have purified and cloned two variants of a 130-kDa phosphatidylinositol 4, 5-biphosphate (PIP2)-dependent Arf1 GTPase-activating protein (GAP), which we call ASAP1a and ASAP1b. Both contain a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, a zinc finger similar to that found in another Arf GAP, three ankyrin (ANK) repeats, a proline-rich region with alternative splicing and SH3 binding motifs, eight repeats of the sequence E/DLPPKP, and an SH3 domain. Together, the PH, zinc finger, and ANK repeat regions possess PIP2-dependent GAP activity on Arf1 and Arf5, less activity on Arf6, and no detectable activity on Arl2 in vitro. The cDNA for ASAP1 was independently identified in a screen for proteins that interact with the SH3 domain of the tyrosine kinase Src. ASAP1 associates in vitro with the SH3 domains of Src family members and with the Crk adapter protein. ASAP1 coprecipitates with Src from cell lysates and is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in cells expressing activated Src. Both coimmunoprecipitation and tyrosine phosphorylation depend on the same proline-rich class II Src SH3 binding site required for in vitro association. By directly interacting with both Arfs and tyrosine kinases involved in regulating cell growth and cytoskeletal organization, ASAP1 could coordinate membrane remodeling events with these processes.
9918801	Molecular interactions within the melanogenic complex: formation of heterodimers of tyrosinase and TRP1 from B16 mouse melanoma.	Melanin synthesis in mammals is catalyzed by three structurally related, membrane-bound proteins, tyrosinase, and the tyrosinase-related proteins 1 and 2 (TRP1 and TRP2). Current evidence suggests that in vivo these proteins may form a multienzyme complex. However, neither the precise composition of the complex, nor the specific interactions between its components have been characterized. This study used purified preparations of tyrosinase and TRP1 to analyze their interactions in non ionic detergent solution. Purified tyrosinase and TRP1 behaved as homodimers as judged by gel filtration chromatography and electrophoresis. Upon mixing of the purified proteins, the preferential formation of heterodimers was detected by: i) coelution in gel filtration chromatography with a shift to a common partition coefficient for both proteins, and ii) the occurrence of fluorescent energy transfer between fluorescein-labeled tyrosinase and rhodamine-labeled TRP1. However, the formation of heterodimers did not cause changes in the tyrosine hydroxylase activity of the enzymes, at least under standard assay conditions. Thus, tyrosinase and TRP1 interact strongly and specifically in detergent solution to form an heterodimer that might contribute to the formation of the melanogenic complex.
9973195	BNIP3alpha: a human homolog of mitochondrial proapoptotic protein BNIP3.	Apoptosis is regulated by interaction of viral and cellular BCL-2 family antiapoptotic proteins with various pro-apoptotic proteins, several of which are also members of the BCL-2 family. Cellular protein BNIP3 is a BCL-2 family proapoptotic protein that interacts with viral antiapoptosis proteins such as adenoviruses E1B-19K and EBV-BHRF1 and cellular antiapoptosis proteins such as BCL-2 and BCL-xL. Database searches indicate that the human genome encodes an open reading frame for a protein, BNIP3alpha, that shares substantial homology with BNIP3. The BNIP3alpha open reading frame encodes a protein of 219 amino acids that contains a conserved BH3 domain and a COOH-terminal trans-membrane domain, characteristic of several BCL-2 family proapoptotic proteins. BNIP3alpha interacts with viral antiapoptosis protein E1B-19K and cellular antiapoptosis proteins BCL-2 and BCL-xL. Overexpression of BNIP3alpha in transfected cells results in apoptosis and suppresses the antiapoptosis activity of E1B-19K and BCL-xL. Like BNIP3, BNIP3alpha seems to be predominantly localized in mitochondria. These results suggest that BNIP3alpha is a structural and functional homologue of BNIP3. BNIP3 and BNIP3alpha seem to be the first examples of homologues among the various human proapoptotic proteins. Northern blot analysis reveals that BNIP3alpha is expressed ubiquitously in most human tissues. In contrast, BNIP3 is expressed well in several human tissues and less abundantly in certain tissues such as placenta and lung. These results suggest that although BNIP3 and BNIP3alpha may promote apoptosis simultaneously in most human tissues, BNIP3alpha may play a more universal role.
1000867	Determination of manganese in blood and urine by flameless atomic absorption spectrophotometry.	A method for the determination of manganese in blood and urine is described. A chelate fo manganese with cupferron is extracted with methylisobutylketone and determined by flameless atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The method is directly applicable to urine but the determination of manganese in blood required a preliminary digestion step. With the use of internal standards, this technique allows the determination of manganese concentrations of the order of 1 mug/1 of urine or 1 mug/100 ml whole blood.
10022833	Socs1 binds to multiple signalling proteins and suppresses steel factor-dependent proliferation.	We have identified Socs1 as a downstream component of the Kit receptor tyrosine kinase signalling pathway. We show that the expression of Socs1 mRNA is rapidly increased in primary bone marrow-derived mast cells following exposure to Steel factor, and Socs1 inducibly binds to the Kit receptor tyrosine kinase via its Src homology 2 (SH2) domain. Previous studies have shown that Socs1 suppresses cytokine-mediated differentiation in M1 cells inhibiting Janus family kinases. In contrast, constitutive expression of Socs1 suppresses the mitogenic potential of Kit while maintaining Steel factor-dependent cell survival signals. Unlike Janus kinases, Socs1 does not inhibit the catalytic activity of the Kit tyrosine kinase. In order to define the mechanism by which Socs1-mediated suppression of Kit-dependent mitogenesis occurs, we demonstrate that Socs1 binds to the signalling proteins Grb-2 and the Rho-family guanine nucleotide exchange factors Vav. We show that Grb2 binds Socs1 via its SH3 domains to putative diproline determinants located in the N-terminus of Socs1, and Socs1 binds to the N-terminal regulatory region of Vav. These data suggest that Socs1 is an inducible switch which modulates proliferative signals in favour of cell survival signals and functions as an adaptor protein in receptor tyrosine kinase signalling pathways.
10022874	Phosphorylation of the cap-binding protein eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E by protein kinase Mnk1 in vivo.	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) binds to the mRNA 5' cap and brings the mRNA into a complex with other protein synthesis initiation factors and ribosomes. The activity of mammalian eIF4E is important for the translation of capped mRNAs and is thought to be regulated by two mechanisms. First, eIF4E is sequestered by binding proteins, such as 4EBP1, in quiescent cells. Mitogens induce the release of eIF4E by stimulating the phosphorylation of 4EBP1. Second, mitogens and stresses induce the phosphorylation of eIF4E at Ser 209, increasing the affinity of eIF4E for capped mRNA and for an associated scaffolding protein, eIF4G. We previously showed that a mitogen- and stress-activated kinase, Mnk1, phosphorylates eIF4E in vitro at the physiological site. Here we show that Mnk1 regulates eIF4E phosphorylation in vivo. Mnk1 binds directly to eIF4G and copurifies with eIF4G and eIF4E. We identified activating phosphorylation sites in Mnk1 and developed dominant-negative and activated mutants. Expression of dominant-negative Mnk1 reduces mitogen-induced eIF4E phosphorylation, while expression of activated Mnk1 increases basal eIF4E phosphorylation. Activated mutant Mnk1 also induces extensive phosphorylation of eIF4E in cells overexpressing 4EBP1. This suggests that phosphorylation of eIF4E is catalyzed by Mnk1 or a very similar kinase in cells and is independent of other mitogenic signals that release eIF4E from 4EBP1.
10023675	Physical interaction of the bHLH LYL1 protein and NF-kappaB1 p105.	The LYL1 gene was first identified upon the molecular characterization of the t(7;9)(q35;p13) translocation associated with some human T-cell acute leukemias (T-ALLs). In adult tissues, LYL1 expression is restricted to hematopoietic cells with the notable exclusion of the T cell lineage. LYL1 encodes a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein highly related to TAL-1, whose activation is also associated with a high proportion of human T-ALLs. A yeast two-hybrid system was used to identify proteins that specifically interact with LYL1 and might mediate its activities. We found that p105, the precursor of NF-kappaB1 p50, was the major LYL1-interacting protein in this system. The association between LYL1 and p105 was confirmed both in vitro and in vivo in mammalian cells. Biochemical studies indicated that the interaction was mediated by the bHLH motif of LYL1 and the ankyrin-like motifs of p105. Ectopic expression of LYL1 in a human T cell line caused a significant decrease in NF-kappaB-dependent transcription, associated with a reduced level of NF-kappaB1 proteins.
10023771	Crystal structures of two H-2Db/glycopeptide complexes suggest a molecular basis for CTL cross-reactivity.	Two synthetic O-GlcNAc-bearing peptides that elicit H-2Db-restricted glycopeptide-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTL) have been shown to display nonreciprocal patterns of cross-reactivity. Here, we present the crystal structures of the H-2Db glycopeptide complexes to 2.85 A resolution or better. In both cases, the glycan is solvent exposed and available for direct recognition by the T cell receptor (TCR). We have modeled the complex formed between the MHC-glycopeptide complexes and their respective TCRs, showing that a single saccharide residue can be accommodated in the standard TCR-MHC geometry. The models also reveal a possible molecular basis for the observed cross-reactivity patterns of the CTL clones, which appear to be influenced by the length of the CDR3 loop and the nature of the immunizing ligand.
10025402	Structural basis of Rab effector specificity: crystal structure of the small G protein Rab3A complexed with the effector domain of rabphilin-3A.	The small G protein Rab3A plays an important role in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. The crystal structure of activated Rab3A/GTP/Mg2+ bound to the effector domain of rabphilin-3A was solved to 2.6 A resolution. Rabphilin-3A contacts Rab3A in two distinct areas. The first interface involves the Rab3A switch I and switch II regions, which are sensitive to the nucleotide-binding state of Rab3A. The second interface consists of a deep pocket in Rab3A that interacts with a SGAWFF structural element of rabphilin-3A. Sequence and structure analysis, and biochemical data suggest that this pocket, or Rab complementarity-determining region (RabCDR), establishes a specific interaction between each Rab protein and its effectors. RabCDRs could be major determinants of effector specificity during vesicle trafficking and fusion.
10026153	C-terminal Src kinase associates with ligand-stimulated insulin-like growth factor-I receptor.	Increased expression of the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor (IGF-IR) protein-tyrosine kinase occurs in several kinds of cancer and induces neoplastic transformation in fibroblast cell lines. The transformed phenotype can be reversed by interfering with the function of the IGF-IR. The IGF-IR is required for transformation by a number of viral and cellular oncoproteins, including SV40 large T antigen, Ras, Raf, and Src. The IGF-IR is a substrate for Src in vitro and is phosphorylated in v-Src-transformed cells. We observed that the IGF-IR and IR associated with the C-terminal Src kinase (CSK) following ligand stimulation. We found that the SH2 domain of CSK binds to the tyrosine-phosphorylated form of IGF-IR and IR. We determined the tyrosine residues in the IGF-IR and in the IR responsible for this interaction. We also observed that fibroblasts stimulated with IGF-I or insulin showed a rapid and transient decrease in c-Src tyrosine kinase activity. The results suggest that c-Src and CSK are involved in IGF-IR and IR signaling and that the interaction of CSK with the IGF-IR may play a role in the decrease in c-Src activity following IGF-I stimulation.
10026210	A novel PDZ domain containing guanine nucleotide exchange factor links heterotrimeric G proteins to Rho.	Small GTP-binding proteins of the Rho family play a critical role in signal transduction. However, there is still very limited information on how they are activated by cell surface receptors. Here, we used a consensus sequence for Dbl domains of Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) to search DNA data bases, and identified a novel human GEF for Rho-related GTPases harboring structural features indicative of its possible regulatory mechanism(s). This protein contained a tandem DH/PH domain closely related to those of Rho-specific GEFs, a PDZ domain, a proline-rich domain, and an area of homology to Lsc, p115-RhoGEF, and a Drosophila RhoGEF that was termed Lsc-homology (LH) domain. This novel molecule, designated PDZ-RhoGEF, activated biological and biochemical pathways specific for Rho, and activation of these pathways required an intact DH and PH domain. However, the PDZ domain was dispensable for these functions, and mutants lacking the LH domain were more active, suggesting a negative regulatory role for the LH domain. A search for additional molecules exhibiting an LH domain revealed a limited homology with the catalytic region of a newly identified GTPase-activating protein for heterotrimeric G proteins, RGS14. This prompted us to investigate whether PDZ-RhoGEF could interact with representative members of each G protein family. We found that PDZ-RhoGEF was able to form, in vivo, stable complexes with two members of the Galpha12 family, Galpha12 and Galpha13, and that this interaction was mediated by the LH domain. Furthermore, we obtained evidence to suggest that PDZ-RhoGEF mediates the activation of Rho by Galpha12 and Galpha13. Together, these findings suggest the existence of a novel mechanism whereby the large family of cell surface receptors that transmit signals through heterotrimeric G proteins activate Rho-dependent pathways: by stimulating the activity of members of the Galpha12 family which, in turn, activate an exchange factor acting on Rho.
10027300	Clustering of AMPA receptors by the synaptic PDZ domain-containing protein PICK1.	Synaptic clustering of neurotransmitter receptors is crucial for efficient signal transduction and integration in neurons. PDZ domain-containing proteins such as PSD-95/SAP90 interact with the intracellular C termini of a variety of receptors and are thought to be important in the targeting and anchoring of receptors to specific synapses. Here, we show that PICK1 (protein interacting with C kinase), a PDZ domain-containing protein, interacts with the C termini of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors in vitro and in vivo. In neurons, PICK1 specifically colocalizes with AMPA receptors at excitatory synapses. Furthermore, PICK1 induces clustering of AMPA receptors in heterologous expression systems. These results suggest that PICK1 may play an important role in the modulation of synaptic transmission by regulating the synaptic targeting of AMPA receptors.
10037602	Function of WW domains as phosphoserine- or phosphothreonine-binding modules.	Protein-interacting modules help determine the specificity of signal transduction events, and protein phosphorylation can modulate the assembly of such modules into specific signaling complexes. Although phosphotyrosine-binding modules have been well-characterized, phosphoserine- or phosphothreonine-binding modules have not been described. WW domains are small protein modules found in various proteins that participate in cell signaling or regulation. WW domains of the essential mitotic prolyl isomerase Pin1 and the ubiquitin ligase Nedd4 bound to phosphoproteins, including physiological substrates of enzymes, in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. The Pin1 WW domain functioned as a phosphoserine- or phosphothreonine-binding module, with properties similar to those of SRC homology 2 domains. Phosphoserine- or phosphothreonine-binding activity was required for Pin1 to interact with its substrates in vitro and to perform its essential function in vivo.
10048790	The SH3 domain of the S. cerevisiae Cdc25p binds adenylyl cyclase and facilitates Ras regulation of cAMP signalling.	Cdc25 and Ras are two proteins required for cAMP signalling in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cdc25 is the guanine nucleotide exchange protein that activates Ras. Ras, in turn, activates adenylyl cyclase. Cdc25 has a Src homology 3 (SH3) domain near the N-terminus and a catalytic domain in the C-terminal region. We find that a point mutation in the SH3 domain attenuates cAMP signalling in response to glucose feeding. Furthermore, we demonstrate, by using recombinant adenylyl cyclase and Cdc25, that the SH3 domain of Cdc25 can bind directly to adenylyl cyclase. Binding was specific, because the SH3 domain of Abp1p (actin-binding protein 1), which binds the 70,000 Mr subunit of adenylyl cyclase, CAP/Srv2, failed to bind adenylyl cyclase. A binding site for Cdc25-SH3 localised to the C-terminal catalytic region of adenylyl cyclase. Finally, pre-incubation with Ras enhanced the SH3-bound adenylyl cyclase activity. These studies suggest that a direct interaction between Cdc25 and adenylyl cyclase promotes efficient assembly of the adenylyl cyclase complex.
10049915	RAD53 regulates DBF4 independently of checkpoint function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Cdc7p and Dbf4p proteins form an active kinase complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that is essential for the initiation of DNA replication. A genetic screen for mutations that are lethal in combination with cdc7-1 led to the isolation of seven lsd (lethal with seven defect) complementation groups. The lsd7 complementation group contained two temperature-sensitive dbf4 alleles. The lsd1 complementation group contained a new allele of RAD53, which was designated rad53-31. RAD53 encodes an essential protein kinase that is required for the activation of DNA damage and DNA replication checkpoint pathways, and that is implicated as a positive regulator of S phase. Unlike other RAD53 alleles, we demonstrate that the rad53-31 allele retains an intact checkpoint function. Thus, the checkpoint function and the DNA replication function of RAD53 can be functionally separated. The activation of DNA replication through RAD53 most likely occurs through DBF4. Two-hybrid analysis indicates that the Rad53p protein binds to Dbf4p. Furthermore, the steady-state level of DBF4 message and Dbf4p protein is reduced in several rad53 mutant strains, indicating that RAD53 positively regulates DBF4. These results suggest that two different functions of the cell cycle, initiation of DNA replication and the checkpoint function, can be coordinately regulated through the common intermediate RAD53.
10064583	The EH and SH3 domain Ese proteins regulate endocytosis by linking to dynamin and Eps15.	Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is a multistep process which requires interaction between a number of conserved proteins. We have cloned two mammalian genes which code for a number of endocytic adaptor proteins. Two of these proteins, termed Ese1 and Ese2, contain two N-terminal EH domains, a central coiled-coil domain and five C-terminal SH3 domains. Ese1 is constitutively associated with Eps15 proteins to form a complex with at least 14 protein-protein interaction surfaces. Yeast two-hybrid assays have revealed that Ese1 EH and SH3 domains bind epsin family proteins and dynamin, respectively. Overexpression of Ese1 is sufficient to block clathrin-mediated endocytosis in cultured cells, presumably through disruption of higher order protein complexes, which are assembled on the endogenous Ese1-Eps15 scaffold. The Ese1-Eps15 scaffold therefore links dynamin, epsin and other endocytic pathway components.
10064593	Activation of the Raf/MAP kinase cascade by the Ras-related protein TC21 is required for the TC21-mediated transformation of NIH 3T3 cells.	TC21 is a member of the Ras superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins and, like Ras, has been implicated in the regulation of growth-stimulating pathways. Point mutations introduced into TC21 based on equivalent H-Ras oncogenic mutations are transforming in cultured cells, and oncogenic mutations in TC21 have been isolated from several human tumours. The mechanism of TC21 signalling in transformation is poorly understood. While activation of the serine/threonine kinases Raf-1 and B-Raf has been implicated in signalling pathways leading to transformation by H-Ras, it has been argued that TC21 does not activate Raf-1 or B-Raf. Since the Raf-signalling pathway is important in transformation by other Ras proteins, we assessed whether the Raf pathway is important to transformation by TC21. Raf-1 and B-Raf are constitutively active in TC21-transformed cells and the ERK/MAPK cascade is required for the maintenance of the transformed state. We demonstrate that oncogenic V23 TC21, like Ras, interacts with Raf-1 and B-Raf (but not with A-Raf), resulting in the translocation of the Raf proteins to the plasma membrane and in their activation. Furthermore, using point mutations in the effector loop of TC21, we show that the interaction of TC21 with Raf-1 is crucial for transformation.
10067897	Structure of a DNA-bound Ultrabithorax-Extradenticle homeodomain complex.	During the development of multicellular organisms, gene expression must be tightly regulated, both spatially and temporally. One set of transcription factors that are important in animal development is encoded by the homeotic (Hox) genes, which govern the choice between alternative developmental pathways along the anterior-posterior axis. Hox proteins, such as Drosophila Ultrabithorax, have low DNA-binding specificity by themselves but gain affinity and specificity when they bind together with the homeoprotein Extradenticle (or Pbxl in mammals). To understand the structural basis of Hox-Extradenticle pairing, we determine here the crystal structure of an Ultrabithorax-Extradenticle-DNA complex at 2.4 A resolution, using the minimal polypeptides that form a cooperative heterodimer. The Ultrabithorax and Extradenticle homeodomains bind opposite faces of the DNA, with their DNA-recognition helices almost touching each other. However, most of the cooperative interactions arise from the YPWM amino-acid motif of Ultrabithorax-located amino-terminally to its homeodomain-which forms a reverse turn and inserts into a hydrophobic pocket on the Extradenticle homeodomain surface. Together, these protein-DNA and protein-protein interactions define the general principles by which homeotic proteins interact with Extradenticle (or Pbx1) to affect development along the anterior-posterior axis of animals.
10069368	The Enterococcus hirae copper chaperone CopZ delivers copper(I) to the CopY repressor.	Expression of the cop operon which effects copper homeostasis in Enterococcus hirae is controlled by the copper responsive repressor CopY. Purified Zn(II)CopY binds to a synthetic cop promoter fragment in vitro. Here we show that the 8 kDa protein CopZ acts as a copper chaperone by specifically delivering copper(I) to Zn(II)CopY and releasing CopY from the DNA. As shown by gel filtration and luminescence spectroscopy, two copper(I) are thereby quantitatively transferred from Cu(I)CopZ to Zn(II)CopY, with displacement of the zinc(II) and transfer of copper from a non-luminescent, exposed, binding site in CopZ to a luminescent, solvent shielded, binding site in CopY.
10074103	EBP2, a human protein that interacts with sequences of the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 important for plasmid maintenance.	The replication and stable maintenance of latent Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA episomes in human cells requires only one viral protein, Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1). To gain insight into the mechanisms by which EBNA1 functions, we used a yeast two-hybrid screen to detect human proteins that interact with EBNA1. We describe here the isolation of a protein, EBP2 (EBNA1 binding protein 2), that specifically interacts with EBNA1. EBP2 was also shown to bind to DNA-bound EBNA1 in a one-hybrid system, and the EBP2-EBNA1 interaction was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation from insect cells expressing these two proteins. EBP2 is a 35-kDa protein that is conserved in a variety of organisms and is predicted to form coiled-coil interactions. We have mapped the region of EBNA1 that binds EBP2 and generated internal deletion mutants of EBNA1 that are deficient in EBP2 interactions. Functional analyses of these EBNA1 mutants show that the ability to bind EBP2 correlates with the ability of EBNA1 to support the long-term maintenance in human cells of a plasmid containing the EBV origin, oriP. An EBNA1 mutant lacking amino acids 325 to 376 was defective for EBP2 binding and long-term oriP plasmid maintenance but supported the transient replication of oriP plasmids at wild-type levels. Thus, our results suggest that the EBNA1-EBP2 interaction is important for the stable segregation of EBV episomes during cell division but not for the replication of the episomes.
10074458	A MAP kinase docking site is required for phosphorylation and activation of p90(rsk)/MAPKAP kinase-1.	Activation of the various mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathways converts many different extracellular stimuli into specific cellular responses by inducing the phosphorylation of particular groups of substrates. One important determinant for substrate specificity is likely to be the amino-acid sequence surrounding the phosphorylation site; however, these sites overlap significantly between different MAP kinase family members. The idea is now emerging that specific docking sites for protein kinases are involved in the efficient binding and phosphorylation of some substrates [1] [2] [3] [4]. The MAP kinase-activated protein (MAPKAP) kinase p90 rsk contains two kinase domains [5]: the amino-terminal domain (D1) is required for the phosphorylation of exogenous substrates whereas the carboxy-terminal domain (D2) is involved in autophosphorylation. Association between the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) MAP kinases and p90(rsk) family members has been detected in various cell types including Xenopus oocytes [6] [7] [8], where inactive p90(rsk) is bound to the inactive form of the Erk2- like MAP kinase p42(mpk1). Here, we identify a new MAP kinase docking site located at the carboxyl terminus of p90(rsk). This docking site was required for the efficient phosphorylation and activation of p90(rsk) in vitro and in vivo and was also both necessary and sufficient for the stable and specific association with p42(mpk1). The sequence of the docking site was conserved in other MAPKAP kinases, suggesting that it might represent a new class of interaction motif that facilitates efficient and specific signal transduction by MAP kinases.
10075695	The cell death-promoting gene DP5, which interacts with the BCL2 family, is induced during neuronal apoptosis following exposure to amyloid beta protein.	DP5, which contains a BH3 domain, was cloned as a neuronal apoptosis-inducing gene. To confirm that DP5 interacts with members of the Bcl-2 family, 293T cells were transiently co-transfected with DP5 and Bcl-xl cDNA constructs, and immunoprecipitation was carried out. The 30-kDa Bcl-xl was co-immunoprecipitated with Myc-tagged DP5, suggesting that DP5 physically interacts with Bcl-xl in mammalian cells. Previously, we reported that DP5 is induced during neuronal apoptosis in cultured sympathetic neurons. Here, we analyzed DP5 gene expression and the specific interaction of DP5 with Bcl-xl during neuronal death induced by amyloid-beta protein (A beta). DP5 mRNA was induced 6 h after treatment with A beta in cultured rat cortical neurons. The protein encoded by DP5 mRNA showed a specific interaction with Bcl-xl. Induction of DP5 gene expression was blocked by nifedipine, an inhibitor of L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels, and dantrolene, an inhibitor of calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum. These results suggested that the induction of DP5 mRNA occurs downstream of the increase in cytosolic calcium concentration caused by A beta. Moreover, DP5 specifically interacts with Bcl-xl during neuronal apoptosis following exposure to A beta, and its binding could impair the survival-promoting activities of Bcl-xl. Thus, the induction of DP5 mRNA and the interaction of DP5 and Bcl-xl could play significant roles in neuronal degeneration following exposure to A beta.
10075696	KSR-1 binds to G-protein betagamma subunits and inhibits beta gamma-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase activation.	The protein kinase KSR-1 is a recently identified participant in the Ras signaling pathway. The subcellular localization of KSR-1 is variable. In serum-deprived cultured cells, KSR-1 is primarily found in the cytoplasm; in serum-stimulated cells, a significant portion of KSR-1 is found at the plasma membrane. To identify the mechanism that mediates KSR-1 translocation, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen. Three clones that interacted with KSR-1 were found to encode the full-length gamma10 subunit of heterotrimeric G-proteins. KSR-1 also interacted with gamma2 and gamma3 in a two-hybrid assay. Deletion analysis demonstrated that the isolated CA3 domain of KSR-1, which contains a cysteine-rich zinc finger-like domain, interacted with gamma subunits. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that KSR-1 bound to beta1 gamma3 subunits when all three were transfected into cultured cells. Lysophosphatidic acid treatment of cells induced KSR-1 translocation to the plasma membrane from the cytoplasm that was blocked by administration of pertussis toxin but not by dominant-negative Ras. Finally, transfection of wild-type KSR-1 inhibited beta1 gamma3-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in cultured cells. These results demonstrate that KSR-1 translocation to the plasma membrane is mediated, at least in part, by an interaction with beta gamma and that this interaction may modulate mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling.
10080919	Interaction of S-SCAM with neural plakophilin-related Armadillo-repeat protein/delta-catenin.	Synaptic scaffolding molecule (S-SCAM) is a multiple PDZ domain-containing protein, which interacts with neuroligin, a cell adhesion molecule, and the NMDA receptor. In this study, we searched for S-SCAM-interacting proteins and obtained a neuralplakophilin-related armadillo-repeat protein (NPRAP)/delta-catenin. NPRAP/delta-catenin bound to the last PDZ domain of S-SCAM via its carboxyl-terminus in three different cell-free assay systems, was coimmunoprecipitated with S-SCAM from rat crude synaptosomes, and was localized at the excitatory synapses in rat hippocampal neurons. NPRAP/delta-catenin may be implicated in the molecular organization of synaptic junctions through the interaction with S-SCAM.
10082529	Synergism with germ line transcription factor Oct-4: viral oncoproteins share the ability to mimic a stem cell-specific activity.	Activation of transcription by Oct-4 from remote binding sites requires a cofactor that is restricted to embryonal stem cells. The adenovirus E1A protein can mimic the activity of this stem cell-specific factor and stimulates Oct-4 activity in differentiated cells. Here we characterize the Oct-4-E1A interaction and show that the E1A 289R protein harbors two independent Oct-4 binding sites, both of which specifically interact with the POU domain of Oct-4. Furthermore, we demonstrate that, like E1A, the human papillomavirus E7 oncoprotein also specifically binds to the Oct-4 POU domain. E7 and Oct-4 can form a complex both in vitro and in vivo. Expression of E7 in differentiated cells stimulates Oct-4-mediated transactivation from distal binding sites. Moreover, Oct-4, but not other Oct factors, is active when expressed in cells transformed by human papillomavirus. Our results suggest that different viruses have evolved oncoproteins that share the ability to target Oct-4 and to mimic a stem cell-specific activity.
10082674	Identification of myosin II as a binding protein to the PH domain of protein kinase B.	Myosin II was identified as a binding protein to the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain of protein kinase B (PKB) in CHO cell extract by using the glutathione S-transferase-fusion protein as a probe. When myosin II purified from rabbit skeletal muscle was employed, myosin II was shown to bind almost exclusively to the PH domain of PKB among the PH domain fusion proteins examined. The purified myosin II bound to the PH domain of PKB with a Kd value of 1.1 x 10(-7) M. Studies with a series of truncated molecules indicated that the whole structure of the PH domain is required for the binding of myosin II, and the binding to the PH domain was inhibited by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. These results suggest that myosin II is a specific binding protein to the PH domain of particular proteins including PKB.
10087263	A Cdc24p-Far1p-Gbetagamma protein complex required for yeast orientation during mating.	Oriented cell growth requires the specification of a site for polarized growth and subsequent orientation of the cytoskeleton towards this site. During mating, haploid Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells orient their growth in response to a pheromone gradient overriding an internal landmark for polarized growth, the bud site. This response requires Cdc24p, Far1p, and a heterotrimeric G-protein. Here we show that a two- hybrid interaction between Cdc24p and Gbeta requires Far1p but not pheromone-dependent MAP-kinase signaling, indicating Far1p has a role in regulating the association of Cdc24p and Gbeta. Binding experiments demonstrate that Cdc24p, Far1p, and Gbeta form a complex in which pairwise interactions can occur in the absence of the third protein. Cdc24p localizes to sites of polarized growth suggesting that this complex is localized. In the absence of CDC24-FAR1-mediated chemotropism, a bud site selection protein, Bud1p/Rsr1p, is essential for morphological changes in response to pheromone. These results suggest that formation of a Cdc24p-Far1p-Gbetagamma complex functions as a landmark for orientation of the cytoskeleton during growth towards an external signal.
10088721	In vivo and in vitro association of 14-3-3 epsilon isoform with calmodulin: implication for signal transduction and cell proliferation.	Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, human 14-3-3 epsilon protein was found to interact with human calmodulin. In vitro binding assay between human 14-3-3 epsilon protein/peptide and calmodulin was demonstrated by native gel electrophoresis, and the interaction was shown to be calcium dependent. Our results, along with the association of the 14-3-3 epsilon protein with other signaling proteins, suggest that the 14-3-3 protein could provide a link between signal transduction and cell proliferation.
10089303	Refined structure of the FKBP12-rapamycin-FRB ternary complex at 2.2 A resolution.	The structure of the FKBP12-rapamycin-FRB ternary complex has now been refined at 2.2 A resolution. The cell-cycle arrest agent rapamycin binds FK506-binding protein (FKBP12) and the FKBP12-rapamycin binding (FRB) domain of FKBP12-rapamycin associated protein (FRAP) simultaneously, and the inhibition of FRAP is responsible for rapamycin's biological activity. The conformation of rapamycin in the ternary complex is very similar to that observed in the FKBP12-rapamycin binary complex, with an r.m.s. difference of only 0.30 A. However, a slight (9 degrees ) rotation repositions the FRB-binding face of rapamycin in the ternary complex. There are extensive rapamycin-protein interactions and relatively few interactions between the two protein partners FKBP12 and FRB, these interactions mainly involving residues in the 40s and 80s loops of FKBP12 and alpha1 and alpha4 of FRB. The high-resolution refinement has revealed the crucial role of several buried waters in the formation of the ternary complex.
10089404	High-resolution structures of three new trypsin-squash-inhibitor complexes: a detailed comparison with other trypsins and their complexes.	An anionic trypsin from Atlantic salmon and bovine trypsin have been complexed with the squash-seed inhibitors, CMTI-I (Cucurbita maxima trypsin inhibitor I, P1 Arg) and CPTI-II (Cucurbita pepo trypsin inhibitor II, P1 Lys). The crystal structures of three such complexes have been determined to 1.5-1.8 A resolution and refined to crystallographic R factors ranging from 17.6 to 19.3%. The two anionic salmon-trypsin complexes (ST-CPTI and ST-CMTI) and the bovine-trypsin complex (BT-CPTI) have been compared to other trypsin-inhibitor complexes by means of general structure and primary and secondary binding features. In all three new structures, the primary binding residue of the inhibitor binds to trypsin in the classical manner, but with small differences in the primary and secondary binding patterns. Lysine in CPTI-II binds deeper in the specificity pocket of bovine trypsin than lysine in other known lysine-bovine-trypsin complexes, and anionic salmon trypsin lacks some of the secondary binding interactions found in the complexes formed between squash inhibitors and bovine trypsin. The ST-CMTI complex was formed from the reactive-site-cleaved form of the inhibitor. However, well defined electron density was observed for the P1-P1' peptide bond, together with a hydrogen-bonding pattern virtually identical to those of all serine-protease-protein-inhibitor complexes, indicating a resynthesis of the scissile bond.
10089450	A plant-seed inhibitor of two classes of alpha-amylases: X-ray analysis of Tenebrio molitor larvae alpha-amylase in complex with the bean Phaseolus vulgaris inhibitor.	The alpha-amylase from Tenebrio molitor larvae (TMA) has been crystallized in complex with the alpha-amylase inhibitor (alpha-AI) from the bean Phaseolus vulgaris. A molecular-replacement solution of the structure was obtained using the refined pig pancreatic alpha-amylase (PPA) and alpha-AI atomic coordinates as starting models. The structural analysis showed that although TMA has the typical structure common to alpha-amylases, large deviations from the mammalian alpha-amylase models occur in the loops. Despite these differences in the interacting loops, the bean inhibitor is still able to inhibit both the insect and mammalian alpha-amylase.
10090723	Structural basis of DNA recognition by the heterodimeric cell cycle transcription factor E2F-DP.	The E2F and DP protein families form heterodimeric transcription factors that play a central role in the expression of cell cycle-regulated genes. The crystal structure of an E2F4-DP2-DNA complex shows that the DNA-binding domains of the E2F and DP proteins both have a fold related to the winged-helix DNA-binding motif. Recognition of the central c/gGCGCg/c sequence of the consensus DNA-binding site is symmetric, and amino acids that contact these bases are conserved among all known E2F and DP proteins. The asymmetry in the extended binding site TTTc/gGCGCc/g is associated with an amino-terminal extension of E2F4, in which an arginine binds in the minor groove near the TTT stretch. This arginine is invariant among E2Fs but not present in DPs. E2F4 and DP2 interact through an extensive protein-protein interface, and structural features of this interface suggest it contributes to the preference for heterodimers over homodimers in DNA binding.
10092233	Regulation of beta-catenin signaling by the B56 subunit of protein phosphatase 2A.	Dysregulation of Wnt-beta-catenin signaling disrupts axis formation in vertebrate embryos and underlies multiple human malignancies. The adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) protein, axin, and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta form a Wnt-regulated signaling complex that mediates the phosphorylation-dependent degradation of beta-catenin. A protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) regulatory subunit, B56, interacted with APC in the yeast two-hybrid system. Expression of B56 reduced the abundance of beta-catenin and inhibited transcription of beta-catenin target genes in mammalian cells and Xenopus embryo explants. The B56-dependent decrease in beta-catenin was blocked by oncogenic mutations in beta-catenin or APC, and by proteasome inhibitors. B56 may direct PP2A to dephosphorylate specific components of the APC-dependent signaling complex and thereby inhibit Wnt signaling.
10092459	Crystal structures of phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase complexed with phenylalanine and a phenylalanyl-adenylate analogue.	The crystal structures of Thermus thermophilus phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase (PheRS) complexed with phenylalanine and phenylalaninyl-adenylate (PheOH-AMP), the synthetic analogue of phenylalanyl-adenylate, have been determined at 2.7A and 2.5A resolution, respectively. Both Phe and PheOH-AMP are engulfed in the active site cleft of the catalytic alpha-subunit of PheRS, and neither makes contact with the PheRS beta-subunit. The conformations and binding of Phe are almost identical in both complexes. The recognition of Phe by PheRS is achieved through a mixture of multiple van der Waals interactions and hydrogen bonds. The side-chain of the Phe substrate is sandwiched between the hydrophobic side-chains of Phealpha258 and Phealpha260 on one side, and the main-chain atoms of the two adjacent beta-strands on the other. The side-chains of Valalpha261 and Alaalpha314 form the back wall of the amino acid binding pocket. In addition, PheRS residues (Trpalpha149, Seralpha180, Hisalpha178, Argalpha204, Glnalpha218, and Glualpha220) form a total of seven hydrogen bonds with the main-chain atoms of Phe. The conformation of PheOH-AMP and the network of interactions of its AMP moiety with PheRS are reminiscent of the other class II synthetases. The structural similarity between PheRS and histidyl-tRNA synthetase extends to the amino acid binding site, which is normally unique for each enzyme. The complex structures suggest that the PheRS beta-subunit may affect the first step of the reaction (formation of phenylalanyl-adenylate) through the metal-mediated conserved alpha/beta-subunit interface. The modeling of tyrosine in the active site of PheRS revealed no apparent close contacts between tyrosine and the PheRS residues. This result implies that the proofreading mechanism against activated tyrosine, rather than direct recognition, may play the major role in the PheRS specificity.
10092585	Direct interaction of Alzheimer's disease-related presenilin 1 with armadillo protein p0071.	Alzheimer's disease-related presenilins are thought to be involved in Notch signaling during embryonic development and/or cellular differentiation. Proteins mediating the cellular functions of the presenilins are still unknown. We utilized the yeast two-hybrid system to identify an interacting armadillo protein, termed p0071, that binds specifically to the hydrophilic loop of presenilin 1. In vivo, the presenilins constitutively undergo proteolytic processing, forming two stable fragments. Here, we show that the C-terminal fragment of presenilin 1 directly binds to p0071. Nine out of 10 armadillo repeats in p0071 are essential for mediating this interaction. Since armadillo proteins, like beta-catenin and APC, are known to participate in cellular signaling, p0071 may function as a mediator of presenilin 1 in signaling events.
10092595	The pleckstrin homology domain of protein kinase D interacts preferentially with the eta isoform of protein kinase C.	The results presented here demonstrate that protein kinase D (PKD) and PKCeta transiently coexpressed in COS-7 cells form complexes that can be immunoprecipitated from cell lysates using specific antisera to PKD or PKCeta. The presence of PKCeta in PKD immune complexes was initially detected by in vitro kinase assays which reveal the presence of an 80-kDa phosphorylated band in addition to the 110-kDa band corresponding to autophosphorylated PKD. The association between PKD and PKCeta was further verified by Western blot analysis and peptide phosphorylation assays that exploited the distinct substrate specificity between PKCs and PKD. By the same criteria, PKD formed complexes only very weakly with PKCepsilon, and did not bind PKCzeta. When PKCeta was coexpressed with PKD mutants containing either complete or partial deletions of the PH domain, both PKCeta immunoreactivity and PKC activity in PKD immunoprecipitates were sharply reduced. In contrast, deletion of an amino-terminal portion of the molecule, either cysteine-rich region, or the entire cysteine-rich domain did not interfere with the association of PKD with PKCeta. Furthermore, a glutathione S-transferase-PKDPH fusion protein bound preferentially to PKCeta. These results indicate that the PKD PH domain can discriminate between closely related structures of a single enzyme family, e.g. novel PKCs epsilon and eta, thereby revealing a previously undetected degree of specificity among protein-protein interactions mediated by PH domains.
10094392	Interactions of protein kinase CK2beta subunit within the holoenzyme and with other proteins.	Protein kinase CK2 is a ubiquitous, highly conserved protein kinase with a tetrameric alpha2beta2 structure. For the formation of this tetrameric complex a beta-alpha dimer seems to be a prerequisite. Using the two-hybrid system and a series of CK2beta deletion mutants, we mapped domains involved in alpha-beta and beta-beta interactions. We also detected an intramolecular beta interaction within the amino acid stretch 132-165. Using CK2beta as a bait in a two-hybrid library screening several new putative cellular partners have been identified, among them the S6 kinase p90rsk, the putative tumor suppressor protein Doc-1, the Fas-associated protein FAF1, the mitochondrial translational initiation factor 2 and propionyl CoA carboxylase beta subunit.
10100610	Interaction of tissue transglutaminase with nuclear transport protein importin-alpha3.	Tissue transglutaminase is a multifunctional enzyme which has been involved in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. Recently, nuclear localization of tTG has been reported indicating the potential of active nuclear transport. In this study we use the yeast two-hybrid assay and co-immunoprecipitation to show that tTG interacts with the nuclear transport protein importin-alpha3. Using electron microscopy we demonstrate that nuclear expression of tTG in a non-small cell lung cancer cell line is induced by retinoic acid (RA). These data suggest that importin-alpha3 could mediate active nuclear transport of tTG which may be important for the regulation of critical cellular processes.
10102271	Discs Lost, a novel multi-PDZ domain protein, establishes and maintains epithelial polarity.	Polarization of epithelial cells depends on a hierarchical process whereby specific membrane-associated proteins become targeted to specialized membrane domains. Here, we describe a novel Drosophila protein, Discs Lost (DLT), that plays a crucial role in the polarization of embryonic epithelia during cellular blastoderm formation. At subsequent stages of development, DLT interacts with the apical determinant Crumbs (CRB) and the laterally localized protein Neurexin IV (NRX IV). Mutations in dlt or double-stranded RNA interference lead to aberrant localization of CRB and NRX IV and cause a concomitant loss of epithelial cell polarity. Hence, DLT is required to establish and maintain cell polarity and participates in different molecular complexes that define apical and lateral membrane domains.
10102273	Akt promotes cell survival by phosphorylating and inhibiting a Forkhead transcription factor.	Survival factors can suppress apoptosis in a transcription-independent manner by activating the serine/ threonine kinase Akt, which then phosphorylates and inactivates components of the apoptotic machinery, including BAD and Caspase 9. In this study, we demonstrate that Akt also regulates the activity of FKHRL1, a member of the Forkhead family of transcription factors. In the presence of survival factors, Akt phosphorylates FKHRL1, leading to FKHRL1's association with 14-3-3 proteins and FKHRL1's retention in the cytoplasm. Survival factor withdrawal leads to FKHRL1 dephosphorylation, nuclear translocation, and target gene activation. Within the nucleus, FKHRL1 triggers apoptosis most likely by inducing the expression of genes that are critical for cell death, such as the Fas ligand gene.
10187815	mE10, a novel caspase recruitment domain-containing proapoptotic molecule.	Apoptotic signaling is mediated by homophilic interactions between conserved domains present in components of the death pathway. The death domain, death effector domain, and caspase recruitment domain (CARD) are examples of such interaction motifs. We have identified a novel mammalian CARD-containing adaptor molecule termed mE10 (mammalian E10). The N-terminal CARD of mE10 exhibits significant homology (47% identity and 64% similarity) to the CARD of a gene from Equine Herpesvirus type 2. The C-terminal region is unique. Overexpression of mE10 in MCF-7 human breast carcinoma cells induces apoptosis. Mutational analysis indicates that CARD-mediated mE10 oligomerization is essential for killing activity. The C terminus of mE10 bound to the zymogen form of caspase-9 and promoted its processing to the active dimeric species. Taken together, these data suggest a model where autoproteolytic activation of pro-caspase-9 is mediated by mE10-induced oligomerization.
10187848	Interaction of neuronal nitric-oxide synthase and phosphofructokinase-M.	Neurons that express neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) are resistant to NO-induced neurotoxicity; however, the mechanism by which these neurons are protected is not clear. To identify proteins possibly involved in this process, we performed affinity chromatography with the nNOS PDZ domain, a N-terminal motif that mediates protein interactions. Using this method to fractionate soluble tissue extracts, we identified the muscle isoform of phosphofructokinase (PFK-M) as a protein that binds to nNOS both in brain and skeletal muscle. PFK-M interacts with the PDZ domain of nNOS, and nNOS-PFK-M binding can be competed by peptides that bind to the PDZ domain of nNOS. We found that nNOS is significantly associated with PFK-M in skeletal muscle because nNOS can be immunodepleted from cytosolic skeletal muscle extracts using an antibody directed against PFK-M. In brain, nNOS and PFK-M are both enriched in synaptosomes, and specifically, in the synaptic vesicle fraction, where they can interact. At the cellular level, PFK-M is enriched in neurons that express nNOS protein. As fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate, the product of PFK activity, is neuroprotective, the interaction of nNOS and PFK may contribute to neuroprotection of nNOS positive cells.
10196135	Identification of NSF as a beta-arrestin1-binding protein. Implications for beta2-adrenergic receptor regulation.	Previous studies have demonstrated that beta-arrestin1 serves to target G protein-coupled receptors for internalization via clathrin-coated pits and that its endocytic function is regulated by dephosphorylation at the plasma membrane. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have identified a novel beta-arrestin1-binding protein, NSF (N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein), an ATPase essential for many intracellular transport reactions. We demonstrate that purified recombinant beta-arrestin1 and NSF interact in vitro and that these proteins can be coimmunoprecipitated from cells. beta-Arrestin1-NSF complex formation exhibits a conformational dependence with beta-arrestin1 preferentially interacting with the ATP bound form of NSF. In contrast to the beta-arrestin1-clathrin interaction, however, the phosphorylation state of beta-arrestin1 does not affect NSF binding. Functionally, overexpression of NSF in HEK 293 cells significantly enhances agonist-mediated beta2-adrenergic receptor (beta2-AR) internalization. Furthermore, when coexpressed with a beta-arrestin1 mutant (betaarr1S412D) that mimics a constitutively phosphorylated form of beta-arrestin1 and that acts as a dominant negative with regards to beta2-AR internalization, NSF rescues the betaarr1S412D-mediated inhibition of beta2-AR internalization. The demonstration of beta-arrestin1-NSF complex formation and the functional consequences of NSF overexpression suggest a hitherto unappreciated role for NSF in facilitating clathrin coat-mediated G protein-coupled receptor internalization.
10196137	Interaction of heterotrimeric G protein Galphao with Purkinje cell protein-2. Evidence for a novel nucleotide exchange factor.	The heterotrimeric G protein Galphao is ubiquitously expressed throughout the central nervous system, but many of its functions remain to be defined. To search for novel proteins that interact with Galphao, a mouse brain library was screened using the yeast two-hybrid interaction system. Pcp2 (Purkinje cell protein-2) was identified as a partner for Galphao in this system. Pcp2 is expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells and retinal bipolar neurons, two locations where Galphao is also expressed. Pcp2 was first identified as a candidate gene to explain Purkinje cell degeneration in pcd mice (Nordquist, D. T., Kozak, C. A., and Orr, H. T. (1988) J. Neurosci. 8, 4780-4789), but its function remains unknown as Pcp2 knockout mice are normal (Mohn, A. R., Feddersen, R. M., Nguyen, M. S., and Koller, B. H. (1997) Mol. Cell. Neurosci. 9, 63-76). Galphao and Pcp2 binding was confirmed in vitro using glutathione S-transferase-Pcp2 fusion proteins and in vitro translated [35S]methionine-labeled Galphao. In addition, when Galphao and Pcp2 were cotransfected into COS cells, Galphao was detected in immunoprecipitates of Pcp2. To determine whether Pcp2 could modulate Galphao function, kinetic constants kcat and koff of bovine brain Galphao were determined in the presence and absence of Pcp2. Pcp2 stimulates GDP release from Galphao more than 5-fold without affecting kcat. These findings define a novel nucleotide exchange function for Pcp2 and suggest that the interaction between Pcp2 and Galphao is important to Purkinje cell function.
10198040	Protein interactions with the glucose transporter binding protein GLUT1CBP that provide a link between GLUT1 and the cytoskeleton.	Subcellular targeting and the activity of facilitative glucose transporters are likely to be regulated by interactions with cellular proteins. This report describes the identification and characterization of a protein, GLUT1 C-terminal binding protein (GLUT1CBP), that binds via a PDZ domain to the C terminus of GLUT1. The interaction requires the C-terminal four amino acids of GLUT1 and is isoform specific because GLUT1CBP does not interact with the C terminus of GLUT3 or GLUT4. Most rat tissues examined contain both GLUT1CBP and GLUT1 mRNA, whereas only small intestine lacked detectable GLUT1CBP protein. GLUT1CBP is also expressed in primary cultures of neurons and astrocytes, as well as in Chinese hamster ovary, 3T3-L1, Madin-Darby canine kidney, Caco-2, and pheochromocytoma-12 cell lines. GLUT1CBP is able to bind to native GLUT1 extracted from cell membranes, self-associate, or interact with the cytoskeletal proteins myosin VI, alpha-actinin-1, and the kinesin superfamily protein KIF-1B. The presence of a PDZ domain places GLUT1CBP among a growing family of structural and regulatory proteins, many of which are localized to areas of membrane specialization. This and its ability to interact with GLUT1 and cytoskeletal proteins implicate GLUT1CBP in cellular mechanisms for targeting GLUT1 to specific subcellular sites either by tethering the transporter to cytoskeletal motor proteins or by anchoring the transporter to the actin cytoskeleton.
10205180	Influenza A virus NS1 protein targets poly(A)-binding protein II of the cellular 3'-end processing machinery.	Influenza A virus NS1 protein (NS1A protein) via its effector domain targets the poly(A)-binding protein II (PABII) of the cellular 3'-end processing machinery. In vitro the NS1A protein binds the PABII protein, and in vivo causes PABII protein molecules to relocalize from nuclear speckles to a uniform distribution throughout the nucleoplasm. In vitro the NS1A protein inhibits the ability of PABII to stimulate the processive synthesis of long poly(A) tails catalyzed by poly(A) polymerase (PAP). Such inhibition also occurs in vivo in influenza virus-infected cells, where the NS1A protein via its effector domain causes the nuclear accumulation of cellular pre-mRNAs which contain short ( approximately 12 nucleotide) poly(A) tails. Consequently, although the NS1A protein also binds the 30 kDa subunit of the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF), 3' cleavage of some cellular pre-mRNAs still occurs in virus-infected cells, followed by the PAP-catalyzed addition of short poly(A) tails. Subsequent elongation of these short poly(A) tails is blocked because the NS1A protein inhibits PABII function. Nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling of PABII, an activity implicating this protein in the nuclear export of cellular mRNAs, is also inhibited by the NS1A protein. In vitro assays suggest that the 30 kDa CPSF and PABII proteins bind to non-overlapping regions of the NS1A protein effector domain and indicate that these two 3' processing proteins also directly bind to each other.
10207085	The catenin p120(ctn) interacts with Kaiso, a novel BTB/POZ domain zinc finger transcription factor.	p120(ctn) is an Armadillo repeat domain protein with structural similarity to the cell adhesion cofactors beta-catenin and plakoglobin. All three proteins interact directly with the cytoplasmic domain of the transmembrane cell adhesion molecule E-cadherin; beta-catenin and plakoglobin bind a carboxy-terminal region in a mutually exclusive manner, while p120 binds the juxtamembrane region. Unlike beta-catenin and plakoglobin, p120 does not interact with alpha-catenin, the tumor suppressor adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), or the transcription factor Lef-1, suggesting that it has unique binding partners and plays a distinct role in the cadherin-catenin complex. Using p120 as bait, we conducted a yeast two-hybrid screen and identified a novel transcription factor which we named Kaiso. Kaiso's deduced amino acid sequence revealed an amino-terminal BTB/POZ protein-protein interaction domain and three carboxy-terminal zinc fingers of the C2H2 DNA-binding type. Kaiso thus belongs to a rapidly growing family of POZ-ZF transcription factors that include the Drosophila developmental regulators Tramtrak and Bric a brac, and the human oncoproteins BCL-6 and PLZF, which are causally linked to non-Hodgkins' lymphoma and acute promyelocytic leukemia, respectively. Monoclonal antibodies to Kaiso were generated and used to immunolocalize the protein and confirm the specificity of the p120-Kaiso interaction in mammalian cells. Kaiso specifically coprecipitated with a variety of p120-specific monoclonal antibodies but not with antibodies to alpha- or beta-catenin, E-cadherin, or APC. Like other POZ-ZF proteins, Kaiso localized to the nucleus and was associated with specific nuclear dots. Yeast two-hybrid interaction assays mapped the binding domains to Arm repeats 1 to 7 of p120 and the carboxy-terminal 200 amino acids of Kaiso. In addition, Kaiso homodimerized via its POZ domain but it did not heterodimerize with BCL-6, which heterodimerizes with PLZF. The involvement of POZ-ZF proteins in development and cancer makes Kaiso an interesting candidate for a downstream effector of cadherin and/or p120 signaling.
10209756	Recruitment of ZipA to the division site by interaction with FtsZ.	ZipA is an essential cell division protein in Escherichia coli that is recruited to the division site early in the division cycle. As it is anchored to the membrane and interacts with FtsZ, it is a candidate for tethering FtsZ filaments to the membrane during the formation of the Z ring. In this study, we have investigated the requirements for ZipA localization to the division site. ZipA requires FtsZ, but not FtsA or FtsI, to be localized, indicating that it is recruited by FtsZ. Consistent with this, apparently normal Z rings are formed in the absence of ZipA. The interaction between FtsZ and ZipA occurs through their carboxy-terminal domains. Although a MalE-ZipA fusion binds to FtsZ filaments, it does not affect the GTPase activity or dynamics of the filaments. These results are consistent with ZipA acting after Z ring formation, possibly to link the membrane to FtsZ filaments during invagination of the septum.
10212228	Identification of a potassium channel site that interacts with G protein betagamma subunits to mediate agonist-induced signaling.	Activation of heterotrimeric GTP-binding (G) proteins by their coupled receptors, causes dissociation of the G protein alpha and betagamma subunits. Gbetagamma subunits interact directly with G protein-gated inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels to stimulate their activity. In addition, free Gbetagamma subunits, resulting from agonist-independent dissociation of G protein subunits, can account for a major component of the basal channel activity. Using a series of chimeric constructs between GIRK4 and a Gbetagamma-insensitive K+ channel, IRK1, we have identified a critical site of interaction of GIRK with Gbetagamma. Mutation of Leu339 to Glu within this site impaired agonist-induced sensitivity and decreased binding to Gbetagamma, without removing the Gbetagamma contribution to basal currents. Mutation of the corresponding residue in GIRK1 (Leu333) resulted in a similar phenotype. Both the GIRK1 and GIRK4 subunits contributed equally to the agonist-induced sensitivity of the heteromultimeric channel. Thus, we have identified a channel site that interacts specifically with Gbetagamma subunits released through receptor stimulation.
10212229	All three WW domains of murine Nedd4 are involved in the regulation of epithelial sodium channels by intracellular Na+.	The amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) plays a critical role in fluid and electrolyte homeostasis and consists of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits. The carboxyl terminus of each ENaC subunit contains a PPxY motif which is necessary for interaction with the WW domains of the ubiquitin-protein ligase, Nedd4. Disruption of this interaction, as in Liddle's syndrome where mutations delete or alter the PY motif of either the beta or gamma subunits, results in increased ENaC activity. We have recently shown using the whole-cell patch clamp technique that Nedd4 mediates the ubiquitin-dependent down-regulation of Na+ channel activity in response to increased intracellular Na+. In this paper, we demonstrate that WW domains 2 and 3 bind alpha-, beta-, and gamma-ENaC with varying degrees of affinity, whereas WW domain 1 does not bind to any of the subunits. We further show using whole-cell patch clamp techniques that Nedd4-mediated down-regulation of ENaC in mouse mandibular duct cells involves binding of the WW domains of Nedd4 to three distinct sites. We propose that Nedd4-mediated down-regulation of Na+ channels involves the binding of WW domains 2 and 3 to the Na+ channel and of WW domain 1 to an unknown associated protein.
10219247	Crystal structure of the interleukin-4/receptor alpha chain complex reveals a mosaic binding interface.	Interleukin-4 (IL-4) is a principal regulatory cytokine during an immune response and a crucial determinant for allergy and asthma. IL-4 binds with high affinity and specificity to the ectodomain of the IL-4 receptor alpha chain (IL4-BP). Subsequently, this intermediate complex recruits the common gamma chain (gamma c), thereby initiating transmembrane signaling. The crystal structure of the intermediate complex between human IL-4 and IL4-BP was determined at 2.3 A resolution. It reveals a novel spatial orientation of the two proteins, a small but unexpected conformational change in the receptor-bound IL-4, and an interface with three separate clusters of trans-interacting residues. Novel insights on ligand binding in the cytokine receptor family and a paradigm for receptors of IL-2, IL-7, IL-9, and IL-15, which all utilize gamma c, are provided.
10220405	BRCA1 interacts with components of the histone deacetylase complex.	Germ-line mutations in the BRCA1 tumor-suppressor gene are associated with an increased susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer. BRCA1 contains a carboxyl-terminal domain (BRCT) that is shared with several other proteins involved in maintaining genome integrity. In an effort to understand the function of BRCA1, we sought to isolate proteins that interact with the BRCT domain. Purified BRCT polypeptide was used as a probe to screen a human placenta cDNA expression library by Far Western analysis. Here we report that BRCA1 interacts in vivo and in vitro with the Rb-binding proteins, RbAp46 and RbAp48, as well as with Rb. Moreover, the BRCT domain associates with the histone deacetylases HDAC1 and HDAC2. These results demonstrate that BRCA1 interacts with components of the histone deacetylase complex, and therefore may explain the involvement of BRCA1 in multiple processes such as transcription, DNA repair, and recombination.
10221915	Unexpected modes of PDZ domain scaffolding revealed by structure of nNOS-syntrophin complex.	The PDZ protein interaction domain of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) can heterodimerize with the PDZ domains of postsynaptic density protein 95 and syntrophin through interactions that are not mediated by recognition of a typical carboxyl-terminal motif. The nNOS-syntrophin PDZ complex structure revealed that the domains interact in an unusual linear head-to-tail arrangement. The nNOS PDZ domain has two opposite interaction surfaces-one face has the canonical peptide binding groove, whereas the other has a beta-hairpin "finger." This nNOS beta finger docks in the syntrophin peptide binding groove, mimicking a peptide ligand, except that a sharp beta turn replaces the normally required carboxyl terminus. This structure explains how PDZ domains can participate in diverse interaction modes to assemble protein networks.
10222201	The crystal structures of the complexes between bovine beta-trypsin and ten P1 variants of BPTI.	The high-resolution X-ray structures have been determined for ten complexes formed between bovine beta-trypsin and P1 variants (Gly, Asp, Glu, Gln, Thr, Met, Lys, His, Phe, Trp) of bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI). All the complexes were crystallised from the same conditions. The structures of the P1 variants Asp, Glu, Gln and Thr, are reported here for the first time in complex with any serine proteinase. The resolution of the structures ranged from 1.75 to 2.05 A and the R-factors were about 19-20 %. The association constants of the mutants ranged from 1.5x10(4) to 1.7x10(13) M-1. All the structures could be fitted into well-defined electron density, and all had very similar global conformations. All the P1 mutant side-chains could be accomodated at the primary binding site, but relative to the P1 Lys, there were small local changes within the P1-S1 interaction site. These comprised: (1) changes in the number and dynamics of water molecules inside the pocket; (2) multiple conformations and non-optimal dihedral angles for some of the P1 side-chains, Ser190 and Gln192; and (3) changes in temperature factors of the pocket walls as well as the introduced P1 side-chain. Binding of the cognate P1 Lys is characterised by almost optimal dihedral angles, hydrogen bonding distances and angles, in addition to considerably lower temperature factors. Thus, the trypsin S1 pocket seems to be designed particularly for lysine binding.
10224040	Human CARD4 protein is a novel CED-4/Apaf-1 cell death family member that activates NF-kappaB.	The nematode CED-4 protein and its human homolog Apaf-1 play a central role in apoptosis by functioning as direct activators of death-inducing caspases. A novel human CED-4/Apaf-1 family member called CARD4 was identified that has a domain structure strikingly similar to the cytoplasmic, receptor-like proteins that mediate disease resistance in plants. CARD4 interacted with the serine-threonine kinase RICK and potently induced NF-kappaB activity through TRAF-6 and NIK signaling molecules. In addition, coexpression of CARD4 augmented caspase-9-induced apoptosis. Thus, CARD4 coordinates downstream NF-kappaB and apoptotic signaling pathways and may be a component of the host innate immune response.
10225955	Nectin/PRR: an immunoglobulin-like cell adhesion molecule recruited to cadherin-based adherens junctions through interaction with Afadin, a PDZ domain-containing protein.	We have isolated a novel actin filament-binding protein, named afadin, localized at cadherin-based cell-cell adherens junctions (AJs) in various tissues and cell lines. Afadin has one PDZ domain, three proline-rich regions, and one actin filament-binding domain. We found here that afadin directly interacted with a family of the immunoglobulin superfamily, which was isolated originally as the poliovirus receptor-related protein (PRR) family consisting of PRR1 and -2, and has been identified recently to be the alphaherpes virus receptor. PRR has a COOH-terminal consensus motif to which the PDZ domain of afadin binds. PRR and afadin were colocalized at cadherin-based cell-cell AJs in various tissues and cell lines. In E-cadherin-expressing EL cells, PRR was recruited to cadherin-based cell-cell AJs through interaction with afadin. PRR showed Ca2+-independent cell-cell adhesion activity. These results indicate that PRR is a cell-cell adhesion molecule of the immunoglobulin superfamily which is recruited to cadherin-based cell-cell AJs through interaction with afadin. We rename PRR as nectin (taken from the Latin word "necto" meaning "to connect").
10226625	The yeast two-hybrid system reveals no interaction between p73 alpha and SV40 large T-antigen.	SV40 and/or DNA sequences indistinguishable from SV40 have been detected in several types of human tumours. The oncoprotein of Simian virus 40, SV40 large T-antigen (Tag), is known to bind and inactivate tumour suppressor proteins, such as members of the retinoblastoma family and p53, thereby promoting cell transformation. In this study, we used the yeast two-hybrid system to investigate whether the Simian virus 40 (SV40) large T-antigen is able to interact with p73, a noval discovered putative tumour suppressor, that is homologous both structurally and functionally to p53. The yeast two-hybrid system is a genetic method to detect protein-protein-interactions in vivo. Our results suggest that the SV40 large T-antigen is not able to bind p73 in yeast although both proteins are expressed in the transformed yeast strain as was shown by western blot analysis.
10228152	ZipA is a MAP-Tau homolog and is essential for structural integrity of the cytokinetic FtsZ ring during bacterial cell division.	The first visible event in prokaryotic cell division is the assembly of the soluble, tubulin-like FtsZ GTPase into a membrane-associated cytokinetic ring that defines the division plane in bacterial and archaeal cells. In the temperature-sensitive ftsZ84 mutant of Escherichia coli, this ring assembly is impaired at the restrictive temperature causing lethal cell filamentation. Here I present genetic and morphological evidence that a 2-fold higher dosage of the division gene zipA suppresses thermosensitivity of the ftsZ84 mutant by stabilizing the labile FtsZ84 ring structure in vivo. I demonstrate that purified ZipA promotes and stabilizes protofilament assembly of both FtsZ and FtsZ84 in vitro and cosediments with the protofilaments. Furthermore, ZipA organizes FtsZ protofilaments into arrays of long bundles or sheets that probably represent the physiological organization of the FtsZ ring in bacterial cells. The N-terminal cytoplasmic domain of membrane-anchored ZipA contains sequence elements that resemble the microtubule-binding signature motifs in eukaryotic Tau, MAP2 and MAP4 proteins. It is postulated that the MAP-Tau-homologous motifs in ZipA mediate its binding to FtsZ, and that FtsZ-ZipA interaction represents an ancient prototype of the protein-protein interaction that enables MAPs to suppress microtubule catastrophe and/or to promote rescue.
10228153	PDZ-mediated interactions retain the epithelial GABA transporter on the basolateral surface of polarized epithelial cells.	The PDZ target motifs located in the C-terminal end of many receptors and ion channels mediate protein-protein interactions by binding to specific PDZ-containing proteins. These interactions are involved in the localization of surface proteins on specialized membrane domains of neuronal and epithelial cells. However, the molecular mechanism responsible for this PDZ protein-dependent polarized localization is still unclear. This study first demonstrated that the epithelial gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter (BGT-1) contains a PDZ target motif that mediates the interaction with the PDZ protein LIN-7 in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells, and then investigated the role of this interaction in the basolateral localization of the transporter. It was found that although the transporters from which the PDZ target motif was deleted were still targeted to the basolateral surface, they were not retained but internalized in an endosomal recycling compartment. Furthermore, an interfering BGT peptide determined the intracellular relocation of the native transporter. These data indicate that interactions with PDZ proteins determine the polarized surface localization of target proteins by means of retention and not targeting mechanisms. PDZ proteins may, therefore, act as a sort of membrane protein sorting machinery which, by recognizing retention signals (the PDZ target sequences), prevents protein internalization.
10228159	The E7 oncoprotein associates with Mi2 and histone deacetylase activity to promote cell growth.	E7 is the main transforming protein of human papilloma virus type 16 (HPV16) which is implicated in the formation of cervical cancer. The transforming activity of E7 has been attributed to its interaction with the retinoblastoma (Rb) tumour suppressor. However, Rb binding is not sufficient for transformation by E7. Mutations within a zinc finger domain, which is dispensable for Rb binding, also abolish E7 transformation functions. Here we show that HPV16 E7 associates with histone deacetylase in vitro and in vivo, via its zinc finger domain. Using a genetic screen, we identify Mi2beta, a component of the recently identified NURD histone deacetylase complex, as a protein that binds directly to the E7 zinc finger. A zinc finger point mutant which is unable to bind Mi2beta and histone deacetylase but is still able to bind Rb fails to overcome cell cycle arrest in osteosarcoma cells. Our results suggest that the binding to a histone deacetylase complex is an important parameter for the growthpromoting activity of the human papilloma virus E7 protein. This provides the first indication that viral oncoproteins control cell proliferation by targeting deacetylation pathways.
10228168	A WW domain-containing yes-associated protein (YAP) is a novel transcriptional co-activator.	A protein module called the WW domain recognizes and binds to a short oligopeptide called the PY motif, PPxY, to mediate protein-protein interactions. The PY motif is present in the transcription activation domains of a wide range of transcription factors including c-Jun, AP-2, NF-E2, C/EBPalpha and PEBP2/CBF, suggesting that it plays an important role in transcriptional activation. We show here that mutation of the PY motif in the subregion of the activation domain of the DNA-binding subunit of PEBP2, PEBP2alpha, abolishes its transactivation function. Using yeast two-hybrid screening, we demonstrate that Yes-associated protein (YAP) binds to the PY motif of PEBP2alpha through its WW domain. The C-terminal region of YAP fused to the DNA-binding domain of GAL4 showed transactivation as strong as that of GAL4-VP16. Exogenously expressed YAP conferred transcription-stimulating activity on the PY motif fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain as well as to native PEBP2alpha. The osteocalcin promoter was stimulated by exogenous PEBP2alphaA and a dominant negative form of YAP strongly inhibited this activity, suggesting YAP involvement in this promoter activity in vivo. These results indicate that the PY motif is a novel transcription activation domain that functions by recruiting YAP as a strong transcription activator to target genes.
10233762	Human IP-9: A keratinocyte-derived high affinity CXC-chemokine ligand for the IP-10/Mig receptor (CXCR3).	Chemokines and their receptors play a crucial part in the recruitment of leukocytes into inflammatory sites. The CXC chemokines IP-10 and Mig are selective attractants for activated (memory) T cells, the predominant cell type in skin infiltrates in many inflammatory dermatoses. The selectivity for activated T cells can be explained by the fact that both chemokines exert their effects through a common receptor, CXCR3, which is nearly exclusively expressed on activated T cells. The aim of this study was to identify biologically active CXCR3 ligands produced by keratinocytes. To that end, Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing a cDNA encoding CXCR3 were challenged with proteins obtained from interferon-gamma stimulated keratinocytes and subsequently monitored for effects on second messenger systems. By this approach we were able to isolate IP-10 and Mig, and in addition identified a novel highly potent ligand for the CXCR3 receptor, designated interferon-gamma-inducible protein-9, which proved to be chemotactic for activated T cells expressing CXCR3. Protein sequence and mass spectrometric analysis followed by molecular cloning of the cDNA encoding interferon-gamma-inducible protein-9, revealed that interferon-gamma-inducible protein-9 is a CXC chemokine with a molecular mass of 8303 Da. From a GenBank database query it became clear that interferon-gamma-inducible protein-9 is in fact the protein encoded by the cDNA sequence also known as beta-R1, H174 or I-TAC. In situ hybridization experiments showed that interferon-gamma-inducible protein-9 mRNA is expressed by basal layer keratinocytes in a variety of skin disorders, including allergic contact dermatitis, lichen planus, and mycosis fungoides suggesting a functional role for this chemokine in skin immune responses.
10233951	Interactions of the papovavirus DNA replication initiator proteins, bovine papillomavirus type 1 E1 and simian virus 40 large T antigen, with human replication protein A.	Papovaviruses utilize predominantly cellular DNA replication proteins to replicate their own viral genomes. To appropriate the cellular DNA replication machinery, simian virus 40 (SV40) large T antigen (Tag) binds to three different cellular replication proteins, the DNA polymerase alpha-primase complex, the replication protein A (RPA) complex, and topoisomerase I. The functionally similar papillomavirus E1 protein has also been shown to bind to the DNA polymerase alpha-primase complex. Enzyme-linked immunoassay-based protein interaction assays and protein affinity pull-down assays were used to show that the papillomavirus E1 protein also binds to the cellular RPA complex in vitro. Furthermore, SV40 Tag was able to compete with bovine papillomavirus type 1 E1 for binding to RPA. Each of the three RPA subunits was individually overexpressed in Escherichia coli as a soluble fusion protein. These fusion proteins were used to show that the E1-RPA and Tag-RPA interactions are primarily mediated through the 70-kDa subunit of RPA. These results suggest that different viruses have evolved similar mechanisms for taking control of the cellular DNA replication machinery.
10234023	Postsynaptic density-93 interacts with the delta2 glutamate receptor subunit at parallel fiber synapses.	The glutamate receptor subunit delta2 has a unique distribution at the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse of the cerebellum, which is developmentally regulated such that delta2 occurs at both parallel fiber synapses and climbing fiber synapses early in development but is restricted to parallel fiber synapses in adult animals. To identify proteins that might be involved in the trafficking or docking of delta2 receptors, we screened a yeast two-hybrid library with the cytosolic C terminus of delta2 and isolated a member of the postsynaptic density (PSD)-95 family of proteins, which are known to interact with the extreme C termini of NMDA receptors. We find that delta2 binds specifically to PSD-93, which is enriched in Purkinje cells. In addition, PSD-93 clusters delta2 when they are coexpressed in heterologous cells, and clustering is disrupted by point mutations of delta2 that disrupt the delta2-PSD-93 interaction. Ultrastructural localization of PSD-93 and delta2 shows they are colocalized at parallel fiber synapses; however, PSD-93 also is present at climbing fiber synapses of the adult rat, where delta2 is not found, indicating that the presence of PSD-93 alone is not sufficient for determining the synaptic expression of delta2.
10235259	The CED-4-homologous protein FLASH is involved in Fas-mediated activation of caspase-8 during apoptosis.	Fas is a cell-surface receptor molecule that relays apoptotic (cell death) signals into cells. When Fas is activated by binding of its ligand, the proteolytic protein caspase-8 is recruited to a signalling complex known as DISC by binding to a Fas-associated adapter protein. A large new protein, FLASH, has now been identified by cloning of its complementary DNA. This protein contains a motif with oligomerizing activity whose sequence is similar to that of the Caenorhabditis elegans protein CED-4, and another domain (DRD domain) that interacts with a death-effector domain in caspase-8 or in the adapter protein. Stimulated Fas binds FLASH, so FLASH is probably a component of the DISC signalling complex. Transient expression of FLASH activates caspase-8, whereas overexpression of a truncated form of FLASH containing only one of its DRD or CED-4-like domains does not allow activation of caspase-8 and Fas-mediated apoptosis to occur. Overexpression of full-length FLASH blocks the anti-apoptotic effect of the adenovirus protein E1B19K. FLASH is therefore necessary for the activation of caspase-8 in Fas-mediated apoptosis.
10318831	A PDZ protein regulates the distribution of the transmembrane semaphorin, M-SemF.	M-SemF is a membrane-associated, neurally enriched member of the semaphorin family of axon guidance signals. We considered whether the cytoplasmic domain of M-SemF might possess a signaling function and/or might control the distribution of M-SemF on the cell surface. We identify a PDZ-containing neural protein as an M-SemF cytoplasmic domain-associated protein (SEMCAP-1). SEMCAP-2 is a closely related nonneuronal protein. SEMCAP-1 has recently also been identified as GIPC, by virtue of its interaction with the RGS protein GAIP in vitro (De Vries, L., Lou, X., Zhao, G., Zheng, B., and Farquhar, M. G. (1998) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 95, 12340-12345). Expression studies support the notion that SEMCAP-1(GIPC) interacts with M-SemF, but not GAIP, in brain. Lung SEMCAP-2 and SEMCAP-1(GIPC) are potential partners for both GAIP and M-SemF. The protein interaction requires the single PDZ domain of SEMCAP-1(GIPC) and the carboxyl-terminal four residues of M-SemF, ESSV. While SEMCAP-1(GIPC) also interacts with SemC, it does not interact with other proteins containing a class I PDZ binding motif, nor does M-SemF interact with other class I PDZ proteins. Co-expression of SEMCAP-1(GIPC) induces the redistribution of dispersed M-SemF into detergent-resistant aggregates in HEK293 cells. Thus, SEMCAP-1(GIPC) appears to regulate the subcellular distribution of M-SemF in brain, and SEMCAPs could link M-SemF to G protein signal transduction pathways.
10318918	NS5A, a nonstructural protein of hepatitis C virus, binds growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 adaptor protein in a Src homology 3 domain/ligand-dependent manner and perturbs mitogenic signaling.	Although hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is an emerging global epidemic causing severe liver disorders, the molecular mechanisms of HCV pathogenesis remain elusive. The NS5A nonstructural protein of HCV contains several proline-rich sequences consistent with Src homology (SH) 3-binding sites found in cellular signaling molecules. Here, we demonstrate that NS5A specifically bound to growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2) adaptor protein. Immunoblot analysis of anti-Grb2 immune complexes derived from HeLa S3 cells infected with a recombinant vaccinia virus (VV) expressing NS5A revealed an interaction between NS5A and Grb2 in vivo. An inactivating point mutation in the N-terminal SH3 domain, but not in the C-terminal SH3 domain, of Grb2 displayed significant diminished binding to NS5A. However, the same mutation in both SH3 regions completely abrogated Grb2 binding to NS5A, implying that the two SH3 domains bind in cooperative fashion to NS5A. Further, mutational analysis of NS5A assigned the SH3-binding region to a proline-rich motif that is highly conserved among HCV genotypes. Importantly, phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) was inhibited in HeLa S3 cells infected with NS5A-expressing recombinant VV but not recombinant VV control. Additionally, HeLa cells stably expressing NS5A were refractory to ERK1/2 phosphorylation induced by exogenous epidermal growth factor. Moreover, the coupling of NS5A to Grb2 in these cells was induced by epidermal growth factor stimulation. Therefore, NS5A may function to perturb Grb2-mediated signaling pathways by selectively targeting the adaptor. These findings highlight a viral interceptor of cellular signaling with potential implications for HCV pathogenesis.
10323858	Binding of 14-3-3 proteins and nuclear export control the intracellular localization of the mitotic inducer Cdc25.	Binding of 14-3-3 proteins near the nuclear localization sequence of Xenopus Cdc25 suppresses its ability to induce entry into mitosis. We have examined the intracellular localization of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged wild-type Cdc25 or a mutant (S287A) that cannot bind 14-3-3 proteins. Upon coexpression with Myc-14-3-3epsilon, GFP-Cdc25-WT was predominantly cytoplasmic, whereas GFP-Cdc25-S287A was exclusively nuclear. Leptomycin B, an inhibitor of nuclear export, elicited a prompt redistribution of GFP-Cdc25-WT to the nucleus. Mutagenesis experiments demonstrated that Cdc25 contains multiple nuclear export sequences. These studies indicate that the binding of 14-3-3 proteins and nuclear export regulate the intracellular localization of Cdc25.
10329134	Protein-ligand interaction: grafting of the uridine-specific determinants from the CytR regulator of Salmonella typhimurium to Escherichia coli CytR.	Members of the LacI family of transcriptional repressors respond to the presence of small effector molecules. The binding of the ligands affect the proteins ability to repress transcription by stabilizing a conformation that, in most cases, is unfavorable for high-affinity DNA binding. The CytR anti-activator diverges from the other family members by relying on the cooperative DNA binding with the global regulator CRP. The inducers of CytR do not affect CytR-DNA binding per se, but alleviate repression by interrupting protein-protein interactions between the two regulators. Here, we have studied of the CytR-inducer interaction by exploring a discrepancy in the inducer response observed for the homologous CytR regulators of Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium. CytR of S. typhimurium (CytRSt) appears to respond to the presence of both uridine and cytidine nucleosides, whereas E. coli CytR (CytREc) responds to cytidine only. We have used a combination of genetic and structural modeling studies to provide detailed information regarding the nature of this discrepancy. By analysis of hybrid CytR proteins followed by site-directed mutagenesis, we have successfully transferred the specificity determinants for uridine from CytRSt to CytREc, revealing that serine substitutions of only two residues (G131 and A152) in CytREc is required to make CytREc sensitive to uridine. In addition, by employing a genetic screen for induction of defective mutants, we have identified four amino acid residues in CytRSt that appear to be important for the response to uridine. The implications of these findings for the understanding of the ligand binding and induction of CytR are discussed in the context of the structural knowledge of CytR and homologous protein-ligand complexes.
10329646	Nod1, an Apaf-1-like activator of caspase-9 and nuclear factor-kappaB.	Ced-4 and Apaf-1 belong to a major class of apoptosis regulators that contain caspase-recruitment (CARD) and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domains. Nod1, a protein with an NH2-terminal CARD-linked to a nucleotide-binding domain and a COOH-terminal segment with multiple leucine-rich repeats, was identified. Nod-1 was found to bind to multiple caspases with long prodomains, but specifically activated caspase-9 and promoted caspase-9-induced apoptosis. As reported for Apaf-1, Nod1 required both the CARD and P-loop for function. Unlike Apaf-1, Nod1 induced activation of nuclear factor-kappa-B (NF-kappaB) and bound RICK, a CARD-containing kinase that also induces NF-kappaB activation. Nod1 mutants inhibited NF-kappaB activity induced by RICK, but not that resulting from tumor necrosis factor-alpha stimulation. Thus, Nod1 is a leucine-rich repeat-containing Apaf-1-like molecule that can regulate both apoptosis and NF-kappaB activation pathways.
10329691	The RACK1 signaling scaffold protein selectively interacts with the cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase PDE4D5 isoform.	The WD-repeat protein receptor for activated C-kinase (RACK1) was identified by its interaction with the cyclic AMP-specific phosphodiesterase (PDE4) isoform PDE4D5 in a yeast two-hybrid screen. The interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation of native RACK1 and PDE4D5 from COS7, HEK293, 3T3-F442A, and SK-N-SH cell lines. The interaction was unaffected by stimulation of the cells with the phorbol ester phorbol 2-myristate 3-acetate. PDE4D5 did not interact with two other WD-repeat proteins, beta'-coatomer protein and Gsbeta, in two-hybrid tests. RACK1 did not interact with other PDE4D isoforms or with known PDE4A, PDE4B, and PDE4C isoforms. PDE4D5 and RACK1 interacted with high affinity (Ka approximately 7 nM) [corrected] when they were expressed and purified from Escherichia coli, demonstrating that the interaction does not require intermediate proteins. The binding of the E. coli-expressed proteins did not alter the kinetics of cAMP hydrolysis by PDE4D5 but caused a 3-4-fold change in its sensitivity to inhibition by the PDE4 selective inhibitor rolipram. The subcellular distributions of RACK1 and PDE4D5 were extremely similar, with the major amount of both proteins (70%) in the high speed supernatant (S2) fraction. Analysis of constructs with specific deletions or single amino acid mutations in PDE4D5 demonstrated that a small cluster of amino acids in the unique amino-terminal region of PDE4D5 was necessary for its interaction with RACK1. We suggest that RACK1 may act as a scaffold protein to recruit PDE4D5 and other proteins into a signaling complex.
10329707	Structure-function analyses of the ATX1 metallochaperone.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Atx1p represents a member of the family of metallochaperone molecules that escort copper to distinct intracellular targets. Atx1p specifically delivers copper to the Ccc2p copper transporter in the Golgi. Additionally, when overproduced, Atx1p substitutes for superoxide dismutase 1 in preventing oxidative damage; however the mechanistic overlap between these functions is unresolved. The crystal structure of Atx1p has been solved recently. By examining a surface electrostatic potential distribution, multiple conserved lysines are revealed on one face of Atx1p. An additional conserved lysine (Lys65) lies in close proximity to the metal binding site. Through site-directed mutagenesis, residues in the metal binding region including Lys65 were found to be necessary for both copper delivery to Ccc2p and for Atx1p antioxidant activity. Copper trafficking to Ccc2p also relied on the lysine-rich face of Atx1p. Surprisingly however, elimination of these lysines did not inhibit the antioxidant activity of Atx1p. We provide evidence that Atx1p does not suppress oxidative damage by a metallochaperone mechanism but may directly consume superoxide. Purified Cu-Atx1p reacts noncatalytically with superoxide anion in vitro. We conclude that the copper-trafficking and antioxidant functions of Atx1p arise from chemically and structurally distinct attributes of this metallochaperone.
10330179	Btf, a novel death-promoting transcriptional repressor that interacts with Bcl-2-related proteins.	The adenovirus E1B 19,000-molecular-weight (19K) protein is a potent inhibitor of apoptosis and cooperates with E1A to transform primary rodent cells. E1B 19K shows sequence and functional homology to the mammalian antiapoptotic gene product, Bcl-2. Like Bcl-2, the biochemical mechanism of E1B 19K function includes binding to and antagonization of cellular proapoptotic proteins such as Bax, Bak, and Nbk/Bik. In addition, there is evidence that E1B 19K can affect gene expression, but whether this contributes to its antiapoptotic function has not been determined. In an effort to further understand the functions of E1B 19K, we screened for 19K-associated proteins by the yeast two-hybrid system. A novel protein, Btf (Bcl-2-associated transcription factor), that interacts with E1B 19K as well as with the antiapoptotic family members Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL but not with the proapoptotic protein Bax was identified. btf is a widely expressed gene that encodes a protein with homology to the basic zipper (bZip) and Myb DNA binding domains. Btf binds DNA in vitro and represses transcription in reporter assays. E1B 19K, Bcl-2, and Bcl-xL sequester Btf in the cytoplasm and block its transcriptional repression activity. Expression of Btf also inhibited transformation by E1A with either E1B 19K or mutant p53, suggesting a role in either promotion of apoptosis or cell cycle arrest. Indeed, the sustained overexpression of Btf in HeLa cells induced apoptosis, which was inhibited by E1B 19K. Furthermore, the chromosomal localization of btf (6q22-23) maps to a region that is deleted in some cancers, consistent with a role for Btf in tumor suppression. Thus, btf may represent a novel tumor suppressor gene residing in a unique pathway by which the Bcl-2 family can regulate apoptosis.
10330411	Paxillin LD4 motif binds PAK and PIX through a novel 95-kD ankyrin repeat, ARF-GAP protein: A role in cytoskeletal remodeling.	Paxillin is a focal adhesion adaptor protein involved in the integration of growth factor- and adhesion-mediated signal transduction pathways. Repeats of a leucine-rich sequence named paxillin LD motifs (Brown M.C., M.S. Curtis, and C.E. Turner. 1998. Nature Struct. Biol. 5:677-678) have been implicated in paxillin binding to focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and vinculin. Here we demonstrate that the individual paxillin LD motifs function as discrete and selective protein binding interfaces. A novel scaffolding function is described for paxillin LD4 in the binding of a complex of proteins containing active p21 GTPase-activated kinase (PAK), Nck, and the guanine nucleotide exchange factor, PIX. The association of this complex with paxillin is mediated by a new 95-kD protein, p95PKL (paxillin-kinase linker), which binds directly to paxillin LD4 and PIX. This protein complex also binds to Hic-5, suggesting a conservation of LD function across the paxillin superfamily. Cloning of p95PKL revealed a multidomain protein containing an NH2-terminal ARF-GAP domain, three ankyrin-like repeats, a potential calcium-binding EF hand, calmodulin-binding IQ motifs, a myosin homology domain, and two paxillin-binding subdomains (PBS). Green fluorescent protein- (GFP-) tagged p95PKL localized to focal adhesions/complexes in CHO.K1 cells. Overexpression in neuroblastoma cells of a paxillin LD4 deletion mutant inhibited lamellipodia formation in response to insulin-like growth fac- tor-1. Microinjection of GST-LD4 into NIH3T3 cells significantly decreased cell migration into a wound. These data implicate paxillin as a mediator of p21 GTPase-regulated actin cytoskeletal reorganization through the recruitment to nascent focal adhesion structures of an active PAK/PIX complex potentially via interactions with p95PKL.
10332026	Dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy protein interacts through a proline-rich region near polyglutamine with the SH3 domain of an insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate.	Dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) is an autosomal dominant neuro degrees enerative disorder associated with CAG/glutamine repeat expansion. While the DRPLA gene is ubiquitously expressed, neuron death occurs in specific anatomical areas of the brain. This predicts that the DRPLA protein interacts with other proteins and that these interactions may play a role in pathogenesis. Here, we describe a protein that binds to the DRPLA product. One of the clones isolated with a yeast two-hybrid system was identified as a human homolog of the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate protein of 53 kDa (IRSp53). The gene produced two mRNA forms by differential splicing and encoded 552 and 521 amino acids, respectively. The longer form was mainly expressed in the brain and the shorter one in other tissues. The products were phosphorylated upon stimulation of cultured cells with insulin or insulin-like growth factor 1. Binding of the DRPLA protein to IRSp53 was ascertained by co-immunoprecipitation with antibodies and also by co-localization in perinuclear oval dots in cells expressing engineered constructs. A proline-rich region near the polyglutamine tract of the DRPLA protein and the SH3 domain of IRSp53 were involved in the binding. An extended polyglutamine tract significantly reduced binding ability in yeast cells, but not in in vitro binding assays. The identification of IRSp53 and other proteins detected by the yeast hybrid system predicts that DRPLA functions in a signal transduction pathway coupled with insulin/IGF-1.
10336464	Splice variants of intersectin are components of the endocytic machinery in neurons and nonneuronal cells.	We recently identified and cloned intersectin, a protein containing two Eps15 homology (EH) domains and five Src homology 3 (SH3) domains. Using a newly developed intersectin antibody, we demonstrate that endogenous COS-7 cell intersectin localizes to clathrin-coated pits, and transfection studies suggest that the EH domains may direct this localization. Through alternative splicing in a stop codon, a long form of intersectin is generated with a C-terminal extension containing Dbl homology (DH), pleckstrin homology (PH), and C2 domains. Western blots reveal that the long form of intersectin is expressed specifically in neurons, whereas the short isoform is expressed at lower levels in glia and other nonneuronal cells. Immunofluorescence analysis of cultured hippocampal neurons reveals that intersectin is found at the plasma membrane where it is co-localized with clathrin. Ibp2, a protein identified based on its interactions with the EH domains of intersectin, binds to clathrin through the N terminus of the heavy chain, suggesting a mechanism for the localization of intersectin at clathrin-coated pits. Ibp2 also binds to the clathrin adaptor AP2, and antibodies against intersectin co-immunoprecipitate clathrin, AP2, and dynamin from brain extracts. These data suggest that the long and short forms of intersectin are components of the endocytic machinery in neurons and nonneuronal cells.
10336476	Hepatitis C virus core protein binds to a DEAD box RNA helicase.	Approximately 4 million Americans are infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV), making it a major cause of chronic liver disease. Because of the lack of an efficient cell culture system, little is known about the interaction between HCV and host cells. We performed a yeast two-hybrid screen of a human liver cell cDNA library with HCV core protein as bait and isolated the DEAD box protein DBX. DBX has significant amino acid sequence identity to mouse PL10, an ATP-dependent RNA helicase. The binding of DBX to HCV core protein occurred in an in vitro binding assay in the presence of 1 M NaCl or detergent. When expressed in mammalian cells, HCV core protein and DBX were co-localized at the endoplasmic reticulum. In a mutant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, DBX complemented the function of Ded1p, an essential DEAD box RNA helicase. HCV core protein inhibited the growth of DBX-complemented mutant yeast but not Ded1p-expressing yeast. HCV core protein also inhibited the in vitro translation of capped but not uncapped RNA. These findings demonstrate an interaction between HCV core protein and a host cell protein involved in RNA translation and suggest a mechanism by which HCV may inhibit host cell mRNA translation.
10336672	Differential interaction of the tSXV motifs of the NR1 and NR2A NMDA receptor subunits with PSD-95 and SAP97.	The NR1 and NR2 subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor are encoded by distinct genes. In the rat brain, four C-terminal variants of the NR1 subunit (NR1-1 to NR1-4) are encoded by a single gene, and are generated by alternative splicing of the C1 and C2 exon cassettes, while four different genes encode the NR2 subunits (NR2 A-D). Functional NMDA receptors result from the heteromultimeric assembly of NR1 variants with distinct NR2 subunits. The NR2B subunit interacts with post-synaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95), SAP97 and members of the membrane-associated guanylate-like kinase (MAGUK) family of proteins. This interaction occurs through the binding of the C-terminal tSXV intracellular motif of the NR2B subunit to the N-terminal PDZ (PSD-95, discs-large, ZO-1) domains of the PSD-95 and SAP97 proteins. Both NR1-3 and NR1-4 also display a consensus C-terminal tSXV motif. Using the two-hybrid genetic system in yeast and site-directed mutagenesis, we compared the binding of the NR2A, NR1-3 and NR1-4 tSXV motifs with the PDZ domains of PSD-95 and SAP97. The main conclusions of the present report are that: (i) while NR2A displays a strong interaction with PSD-95 and SAP97, the NR1-3 and NR1-4 NMDA receptor subunits do not display any interaction despite the presence of tSXV motifs; (ii) the C-terminal tSXV motif of the NR2A subunit is mandatory but not sufficient for efficient interaction with the PSD-95 and SAP97 proteins; (iii) as yet unidentified upstream sequences of the receptor subunits determine whether the tSXV motifs will bind to the PSD-95 and SAP97 PDZ domains; (iv) different tSXV motifs elicit interactions of variable strengths; and (v) residues in positions -3 and -4 modulate the binding affinity of the C-terminal tSXV motifs. Using immunohistochemistry, we also compared the distribution of the PSD-95, NR2A and SAP97 proteins in adult rat brain, and we show that in the cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum, there is evidence for colocalization of these proteins.
10339567	CMS: an adapter molecule involved in cytoskeletal rearrangements.	Cas ligand with multiple Src homology (SH) 3 domains (CMS) is an ubiquitously expressed signal transduction molecule that interacts with the focal adhesion protein p130(Cas). CMS contains three SH3 in its NH2 terminus and proline-rich sequences in its center region. The latter sequences mediate the binding to the SH3 domains of p130(Cas), Src-family kinases, p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, and Grb2. The COOH-terminal region contains putative actin binding sites and a coiled-coil domain that mediates homodimerization of CMS. CMS is a cytoplasmic protein that colocalizes with F-actin and p130(Cas) to membrane ruffles and leading edges of cells. Ectopic expression of CMS in COS-7 cells resulted in alteration in arrangement of the actin cytoskeleton. We observed a diffuse distribution of actin in small dots and less actin fiber formation. Altogether, these features suggest that CMS functions as a scaffolding molecule with a specialized role in regulation of the actin cytoskeleton.
10341223	Characterization of MALS/Velis-1, -2, and -3: a family of mammalian LIN-7 homologs enriched at brain synapses in association with the postsynaptic density-95/NMDA receptor postsynaptic complex.	Protein assembly at the postsynaptic density (PSD) of neuronal synapses is mediated in part by protein interactions with PSD-95/discs large/zona occludens-1 (PDZ) motifs. Here, we identify MALS-1, -2, -3, a family of small synaptic proteins containing little more than a single PDZ domain. MALS-1, -2, and -3 are mammalian homologs LIN-7, a Caenorhabditis elegans protein essential for vulval development. In contrast to functions for LIN-7 in epithelial cells, MALS-1 and -2 are selectively expressed in specific neuronal populations in brain and are enriched in PSD fractions. In cultured hippocampal neurons, MALS proteins are clustered together with PSD-95 and NMDA type glutamate receptors, consistent with a postsynaptic localization for MALS proteins. Immunoprecipitation and affinity chromatography studies readily identify association of MALS with PSD-95 and an NMDA receptor subunit. The PDZ domain of MALS selectively binds to peptides terminating in E-T/S-R/X-V/I/L, which corresponds to the C terminus of NMDA type 2 receptors and numerous other ion channels at the PSD. This work suggests a role for MALS proteins in regulating recruitment of neurotransmitter receptors to the PSD.
10343108	Identification of BAIAP2 (BAI-associated protein 2), a novel human homologue of hamster IRSp53, whose SH3 domain interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of BAI1.	BAI1 (brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1) was originally isolated as a p53-target gene specifically expressed in brain. To clarify its function, we have been searching for cellular proteins that associate with the cytoplasmic domain of BAI1. Using its intracellular carboxyl terminus as "bait" in a yeast two-hybrid system, we isolated a cDNA clone named BAIAP2 whose nucleotide sequence would encode a 521-amino acid protein showing significant homology to a 58/53-kDa substrate of insulin-receptor kinase in the hamster. As the expression profile of BAIAP2 examined by Northern blot analysis was almost identical to that of BAI1, BAIAP2 appears to be active mainly in neurons. In vitro binding assays confirmed that a proline-rich cytoplasmic fragment of BAI1 interacted with the Src homology 3 (SH3) domain of BAIAP2. Double-color immunofluorescent analysis revealed that BAIAP2 was localized at the cytoplasmic membrane when it was coexpressed with BAI1 in COS-7 cells; BAIAP2 not associated with BAI1 was diffused in the cytoplasm. Predominant localization of BAI1 protein in a sub-cellular fraction enriched in growth cones indicated a possible role of BAI1 as a cell adhesion molecule inducing growth cone guidance. As a protein partner of BAI1, BAIAP2 may represent an important link between membrane and cytoskeleton in the process of neuronal growth.
10346909	The interaction between rac1 and its guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (GDI), monitored by a single fluorescent coumarin attached to GDI.	The interaction of rac with guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor protein (rhoGDI) is described, using GDI fluorescently labeled on its single cysteine with N-[2-(1-maleimidyl)ethyl]-7-diethylaminocoumarin-3-carboxamide (MDCC). The labeled GDI shows a 70% decrease in fluorescence emission on binding geranylgeranylated rac1.GDP and has an affinity for rac1 within a factor of 2 of the unlabeled GDI. The labeled GDI was used to determine the kinetic mechanism of the interaction by measuring the association and dissociation in real time. The kinetics are interpreted in terms of a two-step mechanism: binding of rac to GDI and then a conformational change of the complex with an overall dissociation constant of 0.4 nM. The conformational change has a rate constant of 7.3 s-1 (pH 7.5, 30 degrees C), and the reverse has a rate constant of 1.4 x 10(-)3 s-1. To overcome difficulties inherent in using and manipulating lipid-modified rac, we also used a combination of unmodified rac1, expressed in Escherichia coli and produced with C-terminal truncation (thus lacking the cysteine that is the site of lipid attachment), and farnesylated C-terminal peptide. This combination can mimic geranylgeranylated rac1, producing a complex with the coumarin-labeled GDI, and was used to examine the relative importance of different regions of rac1 in interaction with GDI.
10348856	Mapping an interface of SecY (PrlA) and SecE (PrlG) by using synthetic phenotypes and in vivo cross-linking.	SecY and SecE are integral cytoplasmic membrane proteins that form an essential part of the protein translocation machinery in Escherichia coli. Sites of direct contact between these two proteins have been suggested by the allele-specific synthetic phenotypes exhibited by pairwise combinations of prlA and prlG signal sequence suppressor mutations in these genes. We have introduced cysteine residues within the first periplasmic loop of SecY and the second periplasmic loop of SecE, at a specific pair of positions identified by this genetic interaction. The expression of the cysteine mutant pair results in a dominant lethal phenotype that requires the presence of DsbA, which catalyzes the formation of disulfide bonds. A reducible SecY-SecE complex is also observed, demonstrating that these amino acids must be sufficiently proximal to form a disulfide bond. The use of cysteine-scanning mutagenesis enabled a second contact site to be discovered. Together, these two points of contact allow the modeling of a limited region of quaternary structure, establishing the first characterized site of interaction between these two proteins. This study proves that actual points of protein-protein contact can be identified by using synthetic phenotypes.
10352183	Interaction between human topoisomerase I and a novel RING finger/arginine-serine protein.	The N-terminus of human topoisomerase I participates in the binding of this enzyme to helicases and other proteins. Using the N-terminal 250 amino acids of human topoisomerase I and a yeast two-hybrid/ in vitro binding screen, a novel arginine-serine-rich peptide was identified as a human topoisomerase I-binding protein. The corresponding full-length protein, named topors, contains a consensus RING zinc finger domain and nuclear localization signals in addition to the arginine-serine-rich region. The RING finger domain of topors is homologous to a similar domain in a family of viral proteins that are involved in the regulation of viral transcription. When expressed in HeLa cells as a green fluorescent protein fusion, topors localizes in the nucleus in a punctate pattern and co-immunoprecipitates with topoisomerase I. These data suggest that topors is involved in trans-cription, possibly recruiting topoisomerase I to RNA polymerase II transcriptional complexes.
10353244	Structure of importin-beta bound to the IBB domain of importin-alpha.	Cytosolic proteins bearing a classical nuclear localization signal enter the nucleus bound to a heterodimer of importin-alpha and importin-beta (also called karyopherin-alpha and -beta). The formation of this heterodimer involves the importin-beta-binding (IBB) domain of importin-alpha, a highly basic amino-terminal region of roughly 40 amino-acid residues. Here we report the crystal structure of human importin-beta bound to the IBB domain of importin-alpha, determined at 2.5 A and 2.3 A resolution in two crystal forms. Importin-beta consists of 19 tandemly repeated HEAT motifs and wraps intimately around the IBB domain. The association involves two separate regions of importin-beta, recognizing structurally distinct parts of the IBB domain: an amino-terminal extended moiety and a carboxy-terminal helix. The structure indicates that significant conformational changes occur when importin-beta binds or releases the IBB domain domain and suggests how dissociation of the importin-alpha/beta heterodimer may be achieved upon nuclear entry.
10353245	Structure of the nuclear transport complex karyopherin-beta2-Ran x GppNHp.	Transport factors in the karyopherin-beta (also called importin-beta) family mediate the movement of macromolecules in nuclear-cytoplasmic transport pathways. Karyopherin-beta2 (transportin) binds a cognate import substrate and targets it to the nuclear pore complex. In the nucleus, Ran x GTP binds karyopherin-beta2 and dissociates the substrate. Here we present the 3.0 A structure of the karyopherin-beta2-Ran x GppNHp complex where GppNHp is a non-hydrolysable GTP analogue. Karyopherin-beta2 contains eighteen HEAT repeats arranged into two continuous orthogonal arches. Ran is clamped in the amino-terminal arch and substrate-binding activity is mapped to the carboxy-terminal arch. A large loop in HEAT repeat 7 spans both arches. Interactions of the loop with Ran and the C-terminal arch implicate it in GTPase-mediated dissociation of the import-substrate. Ran x GppNHp in the complex shows extensive structural rearrangement, compared to Ran GDP, in regions contacting karyopherin-beta2. This provides a structural basis for the specificity of the karyopherin-beta family for the GTP-bound state of Ran, as well as a rationale for interactions of the karyopherin-Ran complex with the regulatory proteins ranGAP, ranGEF and ranBP1.
10354419	Crystal structure of C-phycocyanin from Cyanidium caldarium provides a new perspective on phycobilisome assembly.	The crystal structure of the light-harvesting protein phycocyanin from the cyanobacterium Cyanidium caldarium with novel crystal packing has been solved at 1.65-A resolution. The structure has been refined to an R value of 18.3% with excellent backbone and side-chain stereochemical parameters. In crystals of phycocyanin used in this study, the hexamers are offset rather than aligned as in other phycocyanins that have been crystallized to date. Analysis of this crystal's unique packing leads to a proposal for phycobilisome assembly in vivo and for a more prominent role for chromophore beta-155. This new role assigned to chromophore beta-155 in phycocyanin sheds light on the numerical relationships among and function of external chromophores found in phycoerythrins and phycoerythrocyanins.
10359609	The PDZ domain of the LIM protein enigma binds to beta-tropomyosin.	PDZ and LIM domains are modular protein interaction motifs present in proteins with diverse functions. Enigma is representative of a family of proteins composed of a series of conserved PDZ and LIM domains. The LIM domains of Enigma and its most related family member, Enigma homology protein, bind to protein kinases, whereas the PDZ domains of Enigma and family member actin-associated LIM protein bind to actin filaments. Enigma localizes to actin filaments in fibroblasts via its PDZ domain, and actin-associated LIM protein binds to and colocalizes with the actin-binding protein alpha-actinin-2 at Z lines in skeletal muscle. We show that Enigma is present at the Z line in skeletal muscle and that the PDZ domain of Enigma binds to a skeletal muscle target, the actin-binding protein tropomyosin (skeletal beta-TM). The interaction between Enigma and skeletal beta-TM was specific for the PDZ domain of Enigma, was abolished by mutations in the PDZ domain, and required the PDZ-binding consensus sequence (Thr-Ser-Leu) at the extreme carboxyl terminus of skeletal beta-TM. Enigma interacted with isoforms of tropomyosin expressed in C2C12 myotubes and formed an immunoprecipitable complex with skeletal beta-TM in transfected cells. The association of Enigma with skeletal beta-TM suggests a role for Enigma as an adapter protein that directs LIM-binding proteins to actin filaments of muscle cells.
10359772	ZEB represses transcription through interaction with the corepressor CtBP.	ZEB is an active transcriptional repressor that regulates lymphocyte and muscle differentiation in vertebrates. Its homologue in Drosophila (zfh-1) is also essential for differentiation of somatic and cardiac muscle. Here, we demonstrate that ZEB and zfh-1 interact with the corepressor CtBP to repress transcription. ZEB and zfh-1, both contain the sequence PLDLS in the same region of the repressor domain, and we demonstrate that this sequence binds CtBP-1 and -2. In vertebrate species, ZEB contains two additional CtBP-like binding sites (variations of the PLDLS sequence) that also bind CtBP proteins and are required for full repressor activity. The three sites have an additive effect, and mutation of all three sites is necessary to abolish both binding to CtBP and repressor activity. Finally, we demonstrate that the interaction of CtBP with ZEB at the promoter is necessary for repressor activity.
10360181	A molecular mechanism for the phosphorylation-dependent regulation of heterotrimeric G proteins by phosducin.	Visual signal transduction is a nearly noise-free process that is exquisitely well regulated over a wide dynamic range of light intensity. A key component in dark/light adaptation is phosducin, a phosphorylatable protein that modulates the amount of transducin heterotrimer (Gt alpha beta gamma) available through sequestration of the beta gamma subunits (Gt beta gamma). The structure of the phosphophosducin/Gt beta gamma complex combined with mutational and biophysical analysis provides a stereochemical mechanism for the regulation of the phosducin-Gt beta gamma interaction. Phosphorylation of serine 73 causes an order-to-disorder transition of a 20-residue stretch, including the phosphorylation site, by disrupting a helix-capping motif. This transition disrupts phosducin's interface with Gt beta gamma, leading to the release of unencumbered Gt beta gamma, which reassociates with the membrane and Gt alpha to form a signaling-competent Gt alpha beta gamma heterotrimer.
10364157	Direct interaction of hematopoietic transcription factors PU.1 and GATA-1: functional antagonism in erythroid cells.	Malignant transformation usually inhibits terminal cell differentiation but the precise mechanisms involved are not understood. PU.1 is a hematopoietic-specific Ets family transcription factor that is required for development of some lymphoid and myeloid lineages. PU.1 can also act as an oncoprotein as activation of its expression in erythroid precursors by proviral insertion or transgenesis causes erythroleukemias in mice. Restoration of terminal differentiation in the mouse erythroleukemia (MEL) cells requires a decline in the level of PU.1, indicating that PU.1 can block erythroid differentiation. Here we investigate the mechanism by which PU.1 interferes with erythroid differentiation. We find that PU.1 interacts directly with GATA-1, a zinc finger transcription factor required for erythroid differentiation. Interaction between PU.1 and GATA-1 requires intact DNA-binding domains in both proteins. PU.1 represses GATA-1-mediated transcriptional activation. Both the DNA binding and transactivation domains of PU.1 are required for repression and both domains are also needed to block terminal differentiation in MEL cells. We also show that ectopic expression of PU.1 in Xenopus embryos is sufficient to block erythropoiesis during normal development. Furthermore, introduction of exogenous GATA-1 in both MEL cells and Xenopus embryos and explants relieves the block to erythroid differentiation imposed by PU.1. Our results indicate that the stoichiometry of directly interacting but opposing transcription factors may be a crucial determinant governing processes of normal differentiation and malignant transformation.
10364159	Regulation of 4E-BP1 phosphorylation: a novel two-step mechanism.	The multisubunit eukaryotic translation initiation factor (eIF) 4F recruits 40S ribosomal subunits to the 5' end of mRNA. The eIF4F subunit eIF4E interacts directly with the mRNA 5' cap structure. Assembly of the eIF4F complex is inhibited by a family of repressor polypeptides, the eIF4E-binding proteins (4E-BPs). Binding of the 4E-BPs to eIF4E is regulated by phosphorylation: Hypophosphorylated 4E-BP isoforms interact strongly with eIF4E, whereas hyperphosphorylated isoforms do not. 4E-BP1 is hypophosphorylated in quiescent cells, but is hyperphosphorylated on multiple sites following exposure to a variety of extracellular stimuli. The PI3-kinase/Akt pathway and the kinase FRAP/mTOR signal to 4E-BP1. FRAP/mTOR has been reported to phosphorylate 4E-BP1 directly in vitro. However, it is not known if FRAP/mTOR is responsible for the phosphorylation of all 4E-BP1 sites, nor which sites must be phosphorylated to release 4E-BP1 from eIF4E. To address these questions, a recombinant FRAP/mTOR protein and a FRAP/mTOR immunoprecipitate were utilized in in vitro kinase assays to phosphorylate 4E-BP1. Phosphopeptide mapping of the in vitro-labeled protein yielded two 4E-BP1 phosphopeptides that comigrated with phosphopeptides produced in vivo. Mass spectrometry analysis indicated that these peptides contain phosphorylated Thr-37 and Thr-46. Thr-37 and Thr-46 are efficiently phosphorylated in vitro by FRAP/mTOR when 4E-BP1 is bound to eIF4E. However, phosphorylation at these sites was not associated with a loss of eIF4E binding. Phosphorylated Thr-37 and Thr-46 are detected in all phosphorylated in vivo 4E-BP1 isoforms, including those that interact with eIF4E. Finally, mutational analysis demonstrated that phosphorylation of Thr-37/Thr-46 is required for subsequent phosphorylation of several carboxy-terminal serum-sensitive sites. Taken together, our results suggest that 4E-BP1 phosphorylation by FRAP/mTOR on Thr-37 and Thr-46 is a priming event for subsequent phosphorylation of the carboxy-terminal serum-sensitive sites.
10364196	Tip60 is a nuclear hormone receptor coactivator.	The androgen receptor (AR) is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. Recent work in this field has been focused upon defining the mechanisms of transcriptional control exacted by members of this superfamily. Using a COOH-terminal region of the human AR in a yeast two-hybrid screen, we have identified Tip60 as an AR-interacting protein. In this report, we show that Tip60, which was originally identified as a coactivator for the human immunodeficiency virus TAT protein, can enhance AR-mediated transactivation in a ligand-dependent manner in LNCaP and COS-1 cell lines. In addition, our experiments show that Tip60 can also enhance transactivation through the estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor in a ligand-dependent manner; thus identifying Tip60 as a nuclear hormone receptor coactivator. Our studies also demonstrate that Tip60 co-immunoprecipitates with the full-length AR in vitro and that, in our system, Tip60 enhances transactivation to levels observed with the coactivators steroid receptor coactivator 1, p300, and CREB-binding protein. The importance of such proteins in enhancing nuclear hormone receptor-mediated transcriptional activation is widely accepted, and this work suggests that Tip60 may have an equally important role to play.
10365963	Interaction of E1 and hSNF5 proteins stimulates replication of human papillomavirus DNA.	Mammalian viruses often use components of the host's cellular DNA replication machinery to carry out replication of their genomes, which enables these viruses to be used as tools for characterizing factors that are involved in cellular DNA replication. The human papillomavirus (HPV) E1 protein is essential for replication of the virus DNA. Here we identify the cellular factor that participates in viral DNA replication by using a two-hybrid assay in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and E1 protein as bait. Using this assay, we isolated Inil/hSNF5, a component of the SWI/SNF complex which facilitates transcription by altering the structure of chromatin. In vitro binding and immunoprecipitation confirmed that E1 interacts directly with Ini1/hSNF5. Transient DNA-replication assay revealed that HPV DNA replication is stimulated in a dose-dependent manner by addition of Ini1/hSNF5, and that Ini1/hSNF5 antisense RNA blocks the replication of HPV DNA. Amino-acid substitution at residues that are conserved among E1 proteins prevented the E1-Ini1/hSNF5 interaction and reduced DNA replication of HPV in vivo. Our results indicate that Ini1/hSNF5 is required for the efficient replication of papillomavirus DNA and is therefore needed, either alone or in complex with SWI/SNF complex, for mammalian DNA replication as well.
10366599	A myristoylated calcium-binding protein that preferentially interacts with the Alzheimer's disease presenilin 2 protein.	It is well established that mutations in the presenilin 1 and 2 genes cause the majority of early onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, our understanding of the cellular functions of the proteins they encode remains rudimentary. Knowledge of proteins with which the presenilins interact should lead to a better understanding of presenilin function in normal and disease states. We report here the identification of a calcium-binding protein, calmyrin, that interacts preferentially with presenilin 2 (PS2). Calmyrin is myristoylated, membrane-associated, and colocalizes with PS2 when the two proteins are overexpressed in HeLa cells. Yeast two-hybrid liquid assays, affinity chromatography, and coimmunoprecipitation experiments confirm binding between PS2 and calmyrin. Functionally, calmyrin and PS2 increase cell death when cotransfected into HeLa cells. These results allude to several provocative possibilities for a dynamic role of calmyrin in signaling, cell death, and AD.
10366608	Characterization of phosphorylation sites on the glutamate receptor 4 subunit of the AMPA receptors.	Recent studies have suggested that protein phosphorylation of glutamate receptors may play an important role in synaptic transmission. Specifically, the phosphorylation of AMPA receptors has been implicated in cellular models of synaptic plasticity. The phosphorylation of the glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) subunit of AMPA receptors by protein kinase A (PKA), protein kinase C (PKC), and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) has been characterized extensively. Phosphorylation of this subunit occurs exclusively on the intracellular C-terminal domain. However, the GluR1 subunit C terminus shows low homology to the other AMPA receptor subunits. In this paper we characterized the phosphorylation of AMPA receptor subunit GluR4, using site-specific mutagenesis and biochemical techniques. We found that GluR4 is phosphorylated on serine 842 within the C-terminal domain in vitro and in vivo. Serine 842 is phosphorylated by PKA, PKC, and CaMKII in vitro and is phosphorylated in transfected cells by PKA. Two-dimensional phosphopeptide analysis indicates that serine 842 is the major phosphorylation site on GluR4. In addition, we identified threonine 830 as a potential PKC phosphorylation site. These results suggest that GluR4, which is the most rapidly desensitizing AMPA receptor subunit, may be modulated by phosphorylation.
10368275	The crystal structure of the DNase domain of colicin E7 in complex with its inhibitor Im7 protein.	BACKGROUND: Colicin E7 (ColE7) is one of the bacterial toxins classified as a DNase-type E-group colicin. The cytotoxic activity of a colicin in a colicin-producing cell can be counteracted by binding of the colicin to a highly specific immunity protein. This biological event is a good model system for the investigation of protein recognition. RESULTS: The crystal structure of a one-to-one complex between the DNase domain of colicin E7 and its cognate immunity protein Im7 has been determined at 2.3 A resolution. Im7 in the complex is a varied four-helix bundle that is identical to the structure previously determined for uncomplexed Im7. The structure of the DNase domain of ColE7 displays a novel alpha/beta fold and contains a Zn2+ ion bound to three histidine residues and one water molecule in a distorted tetrahedron geometry. Im7 has a V-shaped structure, extending two arms to clamp the DNase domain of ColE7. One arm (alpha1(*)-loop12-alpha2(*); where * represents helices in Im7) is located in the region that displays the greatest sequence variation among members of the immunity proteins in the same subfamily. This arm mainly uses acidic sidechains to interact with the basic sidechains in the DNase domain of ColE7. The other arm (loop 23-alpha3(*)-loop 34) is more conserved and it interacts not only with the sidechain but also with the mainchain atoms of the DNase domain of ColE7. CONCLUSIONS: The protein interfaces between the DNase domain of ColE7 and Im7 are charge-complementary and charge interactions contribute significantly to the tight and specific binding between the two proteins. The more variable arm in Im7 dominates the binding specificity of the immunity protein to its cognate colicin. Biological and structural data suggest that the DNase active site for ColE7 is probably near the metal-binding site.
10369685	Partial purification of the yeast U2 snRNP reveals a novel yeast pre-mRNA splicing factor required for pre-spliceosome assembly.	We have partially purified the U2 snRNP of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Identification of some proteins consistently found in the purified fractions by nanoelectrospray mass spectrometry indicated the presence of a novel splicing factor named Rse1p. The RSE1 gene is essential and codes for a 148.2 kDa protein. We demonstrated that Rse1p associates specifically with U2 snRNA at low salt concentrations. In addition, we showed that Rse1p is a component of the pre-spliceosome. Depletion of Rse1p and analysis of a conditional mutant indicated that Rse1p was required for efficient splicing in vivo. In vitro Rse1p is required for the formation of pre-spliceosomes. Database searches revealed that Rse1p is conserved in humans and that it belongs to a large protein family that includes polyadenylation factors and DNA repair proteins. The characteristics of Rse1p suggest that its human homologue could be a subunit of the SF3 splicing factor.
10369867	Identification of survival motor neuron as a transcriptional activator-binding protein.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an inherited neuro-muscular disease characterized by specific degeneration of spinal cord anterior horn cells and subsequent muscle atrophy. Survival motor neuron ( SMN ), located on chromosome 5q13, is the SMA-determining gene. In the nucleus, SMN is present in large foci called gems, the function of which is not yet known, while cytoplasmic SMN has been implicated in snRNP biogenesis. In SMA patients, SMN protein levels and the number of gems generally correlate with disease severity, suggesting a critical nuclear function for SMN. In a screen for proteins associated with the nuclear transcription activator 'E2' of papillomavirus, two independent SMN cDNAs were isolated. The E2 and SMN proteins were found to associate specifically in vitro and in vivo. Expression of SMN enhanced E2-dependent transcriptional activation, and patient-derived SMN missense mutations reduced E2 gene expression. Our results demonstrate that SMN interacts with a nuclear transcription factor and imply that SMN may serve a role in regulating gene expression. These observations suggest that SMA may in part result from abnormal gene expression and that E2 may influence viral gene expression through SMN interaction.
10369872	Presenilins interact with Rab11, a small GTPase involved in the regulation of vesicular transport.	Presenilin 1 (PS1) mutations account for the majority of early-onset dominant cases of familial Alzheimer's disease. Presenilins (PSs) are located in many intra-cellular compartments such as the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, nuclear region and vesicular structures. These proteins include from seven to nine putative transmembrane domains, with the N- and C-terminal ends and a large hydrophilic loop orientated towards the cytoplasm. We report an interaction between the human PS1 or PS2 hydrophilic loop and Rab11, a small GTPase belonging to the Ras-related superfamily. Interaction domains were mapped to codons 374-400 for PS1 and to codons 106-179 for Rab11, a region including the fourth GTP-binding domain. Considering the implication of Rab proteins in vesicular transport pathways, the PS-Rab11 inter-action suggests that PSs might be involved in amyloid precursor protein vesicular routing.
10373452	EHSH1/intersectin, a protein that contains EH and SH3 domains and binds to dynamin and SNAP-25. A protein connection between exocytosis and endocytosis?	In yeast two-hybrid screens for proteins that bind to SNAP-25 and may be involved in exocytosis, we isolated a protein called EHSH1 (for EH domain/SH3 domain-containing protein). Cloning of full-length cDNAs revealed that EHSH1 is composed of an N-terminal region with two EH domains, a central region that is enriched in lysine, leucine, glutamate, arginine, and glutamine (KLERQ domain), and a C-terminal region comprised of five SH3 domains. The third SH3 domain is alternatively spliced. Data bank searches demonstrated that EHSH1 is very similar to Xenopus and human intersectins and to human SH3P17. In addition, we identified expressed sequence tags that encode a second isoform of EHSH1, called EHSH2. EHSH1 is abundantly expressed in brain and at lower levels in all other tissues tested. In binding studies, we found that the central KLERQ domain of EHSH1 binds to recombinant or native brain SNAP-25 and SNAP-23. The C-terminal SH3 domains, by contrast, quantitatively interact with dynamin, a protein involved in endocytosis. Dynamin strongly binds to the alternatively spliced central SH3 domain (SH3C) and the two C-terminal SH3 domains (SH3D and SH3E) but not to the N-terminal SH3 domains (SH3A and SH3B). Immunoprecipitations confirmed that both dynamin and SNAP-25 are complexed to EHSH1 in brain. Our data suggest that EHSH1/intersectin may be a novel adaptor protein that couples endocytic membrane traffic to exocytosis. The ability of multiple SH3 domains in EHSH1 to bind to dynamin suggests that EHSH1 can cluster several dynamin molecules in a manner that is regulated by alternative splicing.
10373504	An mRNA stability complex functions with poly(A)-binding protein to stabilize mRNA in vitro.	The stable globin mRNAs provide an ideal system for studying the mechanism governing mammalian mRNA turnover. alpha-Globin mRNA stability is dictated by sequences in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) which form a specific ribonucleoprotein complex (alpha-complex) whose presence correlates with mRNA stability. One of the major protein components within this complex is a family of two polycytidylate-binding proteins, alphaCP1 and alphaCP2. Using an in vitro-transcribed and polyadenylated alpha-globin 3'UTR, we have devised an in vitro mRNA decay assay which reproduces the alpha-complex-dependent mRNA stability observed in cells. Incubation of the RNA with erythroleukemia K562 cytosolic extract results in deadenylation with distinct intermediates containing a periodicity of approximately 30 nucleotides, which is consistent with the binding of poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) monomers. Disruption of the alpha-complex by sequestration of alphaCP1 and alphaCP2 enhances deadenylation and decay of the mRNA, while reconstitution of the alpha-complex stabilizes the mRNA. Similarly, PABP is also essential for the stability of mRNA in vitro, since rapid deadenylation resulted upon its depletion. An RNA-dependent interaction between alphaCP1 and alphaCP2 with PABP suggests that the alpha-complex can directly interact with PABP. Therefore, the alpha-complex is an mRNA stability complex in vitro which could function at least in part by interacting with PABP.
10373534	BRCA1 is phosphorylated at serine 1497 in vivo at a cyclin-dependent kinase 2 phosphorylation site.	BRCA1 is a cell cycle-regulated nuclear protein that is phosphorylated mainly on serine and to a lesser extent on threonine residues. Changes in phosphorylation occur in response to cell cycle progression and DNA damage. Specifically, BRCA1 undergoes hyperphosphorylation during late G1 and S phases of the cell cycle. Here we report that BRCA1 is phosphorylated in vivo at serine 1497 (S1497), which is part of a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) consensus site. S1497 can be phosphorylated in vitro by CDK2-cyclin A or E. BRCA1 coimmunoprecipitates with an endogenous serine-threonine protein kinase activity that phosphorylates S1497 in vitro. This cellular kinase activity is sensitive to transfection of a dominant negative form of CDK2 as well as the application of the CDK inhibitors p21 and butyrolactone I but not p16. Furthermore, BRCA1 coimmunoprecipitates with CDK2 and cyclin A. These results suggest that the endogenous kinase activity is composed of CDK2-cyclin complexes, at least in part, concordant with the G1/S-specific increase in BRCA1 phosphorylation.
10373536	Fanconi anemia proteins FANCA, FANCC, and FANCG/XRCC9 interact in a functional nuclear complex.	Fanconi anemia (FA) is an autosomal recessive cancer susceptibility syndrome with at least eight complementation groups (A to H). Three FA genes, corresponding to complementation groups A, C, and G, have been cloned, but their cellular function remains unknown. We have previously demonstrated that the FANCA and FANCC proteins interact and form a nuclear complex in normal cells, suggesting that the proteins cooperate in a nuclear function. In this report, we demonstrate that the recently cloned FANCG/XRCC9 protein is required for binding of the FANCA and FANCC proteins. Moreover, the FANCG protein is a component of a nuclear protein complex containing FANCA and FANCC. The amino-terminal region of the FANCA protein is required for FANCG binding, FANCC binding, nuclear localization, and functional activity of the complex. Our results demonstrate that the three cloned FA proteins cooperate in a large multisubunit complex. Disruption of this complex results in the specific cellular and clinical phenotype common to most FA complementation groups.
10373562	Trimeric association of Hox and TALE homeodomain proteins mediates Hoxb2 hindbrain enhancer activity.	Pbx/exd proteins modulate the DNA binding affinities and specificities of Hox proteins and contribute to the execution of Hox-dependent developmental programs in arthropods and vertebrates. Pbx proteins also stably heterodimerize and bind DNA with Meis and Pknox1-Prep1, additional members of the TALE (three-amino-acid loop extension) superclass of homeodomain proteins that function on common genetic pathways with a subset of Hox proteins. In this study, we demonstrated that Pbx and Meis bind DNA as heterotrimeric complexes with Hoxb1 on a genetically defined Hoxb2 enhancer, r4, that mediates the cross-regulatory transcriptional effects of Hoxb1 in vivo. The DNA binding specificity of the heterotrimeric complex for r4 is mediated by a Pbx-Hox site in conjunction with a distal Meis site, which we showed to be required for ternary complex formation and Meis-enhanced transcription. Formation of heterotrimeric complexes in which all three homeodomains bind their cognate DNA sites is topologically facilitated by the ability of Pbx and Meis to interact through their amino termini and bind DNA without stringent half-site orientation and spacing requirements. Furthermore, Meis site mutation in the Hoxb2 enhancer phenocopies Pbx-Hox site mutation to abrogate enhancer-directed expression of a reporter transgene in the murine embryonic hindbrain, demonstrating that DNA binding by all three proteins is required for trimer function in vivo. Our data provide in vitro and in vivo evidence for the combinatorial regulation of Hox and TALE protein functions that are mediated, in part, by their interdependent DNA binding activities as ternary complexes. As a consequence, Hoxb1 employs Pbx and Meis-related proteins, as a pair of essential cofactors in a higher-order molecular complex, to mediate its transcriptional effects on an endogenous Hox response element.
10374970	Human papillomavirus (HPV) E6 interactions with Bak are conserved amongst E6 proteins from high and low risk HPV types.	Human papillomavirus (HPV) replication occurs in terminally differentiating epithelium, and requires the activation of cellular DNA replication proteins. Unscheduled DNA replication can result in the induction of apoptosis, and the viral E6 protein induces the degradation of p53 to prevent this. It has recently been shown that HPV-18 E6 can also stimulate the degradation of Bak, a pro-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family. This report shows that the E6 proteins from HPV-18, HPV-16 and HPV-11 can all bind to Bak in vitro, stimulate its degradation in vivo and reduce Bak-induced apoptosis. However, the non-oncogenic HPV-11 E6 is less effective than the oncogenic E6 proteins in each of these assays, indicating that the ability of HPV to circumvent the apoptosis induced by Bak may contribute to the oncogenic potential of the virus.
10376524	Evidence of an interaction between Mos and Hsp70: a role of the Mos residue serine 3 in mediating Hsp70 association.	c-Mos is a germ cell-specific MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAPKKK) that plays an essential role during meiotic divisions of oocytes. c-Mos is a key component of an activity, cytostatic factor, required for metaphase II arrest of unfertilized eggs in vertebrates. To understand the regulation of c-Mos, we are investigating c-Mos-interacting proteins. We provide evidence that mouse c-Mos binds to Hsp70, a molecular chaperone. Hsp70 was found to associate with Mos ectopically expressed in COS-1 cells. Mos-Hsp70 complexes could be immunoprecipitated with both Mos and Hsp70 antibodies. Despite a low-abundance of Mos, the Hsp70 antibody immunoprecipitated Mos as the major protein. Of importance, the Mos protein present in anti-Hsp70 immunoprecipitates functioned as an active MAPKKK indicating that it is not grossly misfolded. It is known that c-Mos protein kinase activity in cell extracts of transfected COS-1 or NIH3T3 cells is labile. We found that the inclusion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in cell extracts protected against the loss of Mos kinase activity. In the absence of ATP from cell extracts, protein kinase activity of Mos was lost within 6 h on ice even though the Mos protein was not degraded and remained bound to Hsp70. Based on our identification of c-Mos-Hsp70 interaction, one of the roles of ATP may be to assist the regulation of c-Mos via ATP involvement in the protein-folding function of Hsp70 and possibly other molecular chaperones. We also detected by coimmunoprecipitation a physical association between endogenous c-Mos and Hsp70 in Xenopus eggs. To provide further evidence for the functional significance of Hsp70 interaction to Mos function, we show that the residue serine 3 in Mos, which is important for the regulation of protein kinase activity of Mos is also important for Hsp70 association.
10376594	Structural basis of procaspase-9 recruitment by the apoptotic protease-activating factor 1.	Caspase-9-mediated apoptosis (programmed cell death) plays a central role in the development and homeostasis of all multicellular organisms. Mature caspase-9 is derived from its procaspase precursor as a result of recruitment by the activating factor Apaf-1. The crystal structures of the caspase-recruitment domain of Apaf-1 by itself and in complex with the prodomain of procaspase-9 have been determined at 1.6 and 2.5 A resolution, respectively. These structures and other evidence reveal that each molecule of Apaf-1 interacts with a molecule of procaspase-9 through two highly charged and complementary surfaces formed by non-conserved residues; these surfaces determine recognition specificity through networks of intermolecular hydrogen bonds and van der Waals interactions. Mutation of the important interface residues in procaspase-9 or Apaf-1 prevents or reduces activation of procaspase-9 in a cell-free system. Wild-type, but not mutant, prodomains of caspase-9 completely inhibit catalytic processing of procaspase-9. Furthermore, analysis of homologues from Caenorhabditis elegans indicates that recruitment of CED-3 by CED-4 is probably mediated by the same set of conserved structural motifs, with a corresponding change in the specificity-determining residues.
10378275	The crystal structure of a reduced [NiFeSe] hydrogenase provides an image of the activated catalytic center.	BACKGROUND: [NiFeSe] hydrogenases are metalloenzymes that catalyze the reaction H2<-->2H+ + 2e-. They are generally heterodimeric, contain three iron-sulfur clusters in their small subunit and a nickel-iron-containing active site in their large subunit that includes a selenocysteine (SeCys) ligand. RESULTS: We report here the X-ray structure at 2.15 A resolution of the periplasmic [NiFeSe] hydrogenase from Desulfomicrobium baculatum in its reduced, active form. A comparison of active sites of the oxidized, as-prepared, Desulfovibrio gigas and the reduced D. baculatum hydrogenases shows that in the reduced enzyme the nickel-iron distance is 0.4 A shorter than in the oxidized enzyme. In addition, the putative oxo ligand, detected in the as-prepared D. gigas enzyme, is absent from the D. baculatum hydrogenase. We also observe higher-than-average temperature factors for both the active site nickel-selenocysteine ligand and the neighboring Glu18 residue, suggesting that both these moieties are involved in proton transfer between the active site and the molecular surface. Other differences between [NiFeSe] and [NiFe] hydrogenases are the presence of a third [4Fe4S] cluster replacing the [3Fe4S] cluster found in the D. gigas enzyme, and a putative iron center that substitutes the magnesium ion that has already been described at the C terminus of the large subunit of two [NiFe] hydrogenases. CONCLUSIONS: The heterolytic cleavage of molecular hydrogen seems to be mediated by the nickel center and the selenocysteine residue. Beside modifying the catalytic properties of the enzyme, the selenium ligand might protect the nickel atom from oxidation. We conclude that the putative oxo ligand is a signature of inactive 'unready' [NiFe] hydrogenases.
10383417	Possible involvement of a novel STAM-associated molecule "AMSH" in intracellular signal transduction mediated by cytokines.	STAM containing an SH3 (Src homology 3) domain and an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif was previously revealed to be implicated in signaling pathways immediately downstream of Jak2 and Jak3 tyrosine kinases associated with cytokine receptors. We molecularly cloned a novel molecule interacting with the SH3 domain of STAM, which was named AMSH (associated molecule with the SH3 domain of STAM). AMSH contains a putative bipartite nuclear localization signal and a homologous region of a c-Jun activation domain-binding protein 1 (JAB1) subdomain in addition to a binding site for the SH3 domain of STAM. AMSH mutant deleted of the C-terminal half conferred dominant negative effects on signaling for DNA synthesis and c-myc induction mediated by interleukin 2 and granulocyte macrophage-colony-stimulating factor. These results suggest that AMSH plays a critical role in the cytokine-mediated intracellular signal transduction downstream of the Jak2/Jak3.STAM complex.
10383418	Characterization of DP103, a novel DEAD box protein that binds to the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear proteins EBNA2 and EBNA3C.	The Epstein-Barr virus-encoded nuclear antigens EBNA2 and EBNA3C both interact with the cellular transcription factor RBP-Jkappa and modulate the expression of several shared target genes, suggesting a tight cooperation in latently infected cells. In a survey for additional cellular factors that bind to EBNA2 as well as EBNA3C, we have isolated and characterized DP103, a novel human member of the DEAD box family of putative ATP-dependent RNA helicases. The interaction with DP103 is mediated by amino acids (aa) 121-213 of EBNA2 and aa 534-778 of EBNA3C, regions that are not involved in binding of the viral proteins to RBP-Jkappa. The DP103-cDNA encodes a protein of 824 aa that harbors all of the common DEAD box motifs. Monoclonal antibodies raised against DP103 detect a protein of 103 kDa in mammalian cells that resides in high molecular weight complexes in vivo. We have detected an ATPase activity intrinsic to or closely associated with DP103. By subcellular fractionation, we find DP103 in both a soluble nuclear fraction as well as in the insoluble skeletal fraction. Whereas the protein and its mRNA are uniformly expressed in all tested cell lines, we observed differential expression of the mRNA in normal human tissues.
10383454	IRAK-M is a novel member of the Pelle/interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) family.	The interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) was first described as a signal transducer for interleukin-1 (IL-1) and has later been implicated in signal transduction of other members of the Toll/IL-1 receptor family. We now report the identification and characterization of a novel IRAK-like molecule. In contrast to the ubiquitously expressed IRAK and IRAK-2, this new IRAK-like molecule is found mainly in cells of monomyeloic origin and is, therefore, designated IRAK-M. Although IRAK-M and IRAK-2 exhibit only a negligible autophosphorylation activity, they can reconstitute the IL-1 response in a 293 mutant cell line lacking IRAK. In addition, we show for the first time that members of the IRAK family are indispensable elements of lipopolysaccharide signal transduction. The discovery of IRAK-M adds another level of complexity to our understanding of signaling by members of the Toll/IL-1 receptor family.
10385526	The zinc finger protein A20 inhibits TNF-induced NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression by interfering with an RIP- or TRAF2-mediated transactivation signal and directly binds to a novel NF-kappaB-inhibiting protein ABIN.	The zinc finger protein A20 is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- and interleukin 1 (IL-1)-inducible protein that negatively regulates nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB)-dependent gene expression. However, the molecular mechanism by which A20 exerts this effect is still unclear. We show that A20 does not inhibit TNF- induced nuclear translocation and DNA binding of NF-kappaB, although it completely prevents the TNF- induced activation of an NF-kappaB-dependent reporter gene, as well as TNF-induced IL-6 and granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor gene expression. Moreover, NF-kappaB activation induced by overexpression of the TNF receptor-associated proteins TNF receptor-associated death domain protein (TRADD), receptor interacting protein (RIP), and TNF recep- tor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) was also inhibited by expression of A20, whereas NF-kappaB activation induced by overexpression of NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK) or the human T cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) Tax was unaffected. These results demonstrate that A20 inhibits NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression by interfering with a novel TNF-induced and RIP- or TRAF2-mediated pathway that is different from the NIK-IkappaB kinase pathway and that is specifically involved in the transactivation of NF-kappaB. Via yeast two-hybrid screening, we found that A20 binds to a novel protein, ABIN, which mimics the NF-kappaB inhibiting effects of A20 upon overexpression, suggesting that the effect of A20 is mediated by its interaction with this NF-kappaB inhibiting protein, ABIN.
10388568	Characterization of the binding interface between ubiquitin and class I human ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme 2b by multidimensional heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy in solution.	Ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (Ubc) are involved in ubiquitination of proteins in the protein degradation pathway of eukaryotic cells. Ubc transfers the ubiquitin (Ub) molecules to target proteins by forming a thioester bond between their active site cysteine residue and the C-terminal glycine residue of ubiquitin. Here, we report on the NMR assignment and secondary structure of class I human ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme 2b (HsUbc2b). Chemical shift perturbation studies allowed us to map the contact area and binding interface between ubiquitin and HsUbc2b by1H-15N HSQC NMR spectroscopy. The serine mutant of the active site Cys88 of HsUbc2b was employed to obtain a relatively stable covalent ubiquitin complex of HsUbc2b(C88S). Changes in chemical shifts of amide protons and nitrogen atoms induced by the formation of the covalent complex were measured by preparing two segmentally labeled complexes with either ubiquitin or HsUbc2b(C88S)15N-labeled. In ubiquitin, the interaction is primarily sensed by the C-terminal segment Val70 - Gly76, and residues Lys48 and Gln49. The surface area on ubiquitin, as defined by these residues, overlaps partially with the presumed binding site with ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1). In HsUbc2b, most of the affected residues cluster in the vicinity of the active site, namely, around the active site Cys88 itself, the second alpha-helix, and the flexible loop which connects helices alpha2 and alpha3 and which is adjacent to the active site. An additional site on HsUbc2b for a weak interaction with ubiquitin could be detected in a titration study where the two proteins were not covalently linked. This site is located on the backside of HsUbc2b opposite to the active site and is part of the beta-sheet. The covalent and non-covalent interaction sites are clearly separated on the HsUbc2b surface, while no such clear-cut segregation of the interaction area was observed on ubiquitin.
10388809	In vivo analysis of the domains of yeast Rvs167p suggests Rvs167p function is mediated through multiple protein interactions.	Morphological changes during cell division in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae are controlled by cell-cycle regulators. The Pcl-Pho85p kinase complex has been implicated in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton at least in part through Rvs167p. Rvs167p consists of three domains called BAR, GPA, and SH3. Using a two-hybrid assay, we demonstrated that each region of Rvs167p participates in protein-protein interactions: the BAR domain bound the BAR domain of another Rvs167p protein and that of Rvs161p, the GPA region bound Pcl2p, and the SH3 domain bound Abp1p. We identified Rvs167p as a Las17p/Bee1p-interacting protein in a two-hybrid screen and showed that Las17p/Bee1p bound the SH3 domain of Rvs167p. We tested the extent to which the Rvs167p protein domains rescued phenotypes associated with deletion of RVS167: salt sensitivity, random budding, and endocytosis and sporulation defects. The BAR domain was sufficient for full or partial rescue of all rvs167 mutant phenotypes tested but not required for the sporulation defect for which the SH3 domain was also sufficient. Overexpression of Rvs167p inhibits cell growth. The BAR domain was essential for this inhibition and the SH3 domain had only a minor effect. Rvs167p may link the cell cycle regulator Pcl-Pho85p kinase and the actin cytoskeleton. We propose that Rvs167p is activated by phosphorylation in its GPA region by the Pcl-Pho85p kinase. Upon activation, Rvs167p enters a multiprotein complex, making critical contacts in its BAR domain and redundant or minor contacts with its SH3 domain.
10390359	Inhibition of the interferon-inducible protein kinase PKR by HCV E2 protein.	Most isolates of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections are resistant to interferon, the only available therapy, but the mechanism underlying this resistance has not been defined. Here it is shown that the HCV envelope protein E2 contains a sequence identical with phosphorylation sites of the interferon-inducible protein kinase PKR and the translation initiation factor eIF2alpha, a target of PKR. E2 inhibited the kinase activity of PKR and blocked its inhibitory effect on protein synthesis and cell growth. This interaction of E2 and PKR may be one mechanism by which HCV circumvents the antiviral effect of interferon.
10391250	Interaction of c-Abl and p73alpha and their collaboration to induce apoptosis.	c-Abl, a non-receptor tyrosine kinase, is activated by agents that damage DNA. This activation results in either arrest of the cell cycle in phase G1 or apoptotic cell death, both of which are dependent on the kinase activity of c-Abl. p73, a member of the p53 family of tumour-suppressor proteins, can also induce apoptosis. Here we show that the apoptotic activity of p73alpha requires the presence of functional, kinase-competent c-Abl. Furthermore, p73 and c-Abl can associate with each other, andthis binding is mediated by a PxxP motif in p73 and the SH3 domain of c-Abl. We find that p73 is a substrate of the c-Abl kinase and that the ability of c-Abl to phosphorylate p73 is markedly increased by gamma-irradiation. Moreover, p73 is phosphorylated in vivo in response to ionizing radiation. These findings define a pro-apoptotic signalling pathway involving p73 and c-Abl.
10391251	p73 is regulated by tyrosine kinase c-Abl in the apoptotic response to DNA damage.	The protein p73 is a structural and functional homologue of the p53 tumour-suppressor protein but, unlike p53, it is not induced in response to DNA damage. The tyrosine kinase c-Abl is activated by certain DNA-damaging agents and contributes to the induction of programmed cell death (apoptosis) by p53-dependent and p53-independent mechanisms. Here we show that c-Abl binds to p73 in cells, interacting through its SH3 domain with the carboxy-terminal homo-oligomerization domain of p73. c-Abl phosphorylates p73 on a tyrosine residue at position 99 both in vitro and in cells that have been exposed to ionizing radiation. Our results show that c-Abl stimulates p73-mediated transactivation and apoptosis. This regulation of p73 by c-Abl in response to DNA damage is also demonstrated by a failure of ionizing-radiation-induced apoptosis after disruption of the c-Abl-p73 interaction. These findings show that p73 is regulated by a c-Abl-dependent mechanism and that p73 participates in the apoptotic response to DNA damage.
10391924	Cypher, a striated muscle-restricted PDZ and LIM domain-containing protein, binds to alpha-actinin-2 and protein kinase C.	We have cloned and characterized a novel striated muscle-restricted protein (Cypher) that has two mRNA splice variants, designated Cypher1 and Cypher2. Both proteins contain an amino-terminal PDZ domain. Cypher1, but not Cypher2, contains three carboxyl-terminal LIM domains and an amino acid repeat sequence that exhibits homology to a repeat sequence found in the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. cypher1 and cypher2 mRNAs exhibited identical expression patterns. Both are exclusively expressed in cardiac and striated muscle in embryonic and adult stages. By biochemical assays, we have demonstrated that Cypher1 and Cypher2 bind to alpha-actinin-2 via their PDZ domains. This interaction has been further confirmed by immunohistochemical studies that demonstrated co-localization of Cypher and alpha-actinin at the Z-lines of cardiac muscle. We have also found that Cypher1 binds to protein kinase C through its LIM domains. Phosphorylation of Cypher by protein kinase C has demonstrated the functional significance of this interaction. Together, our data suggest that Cypher1 may function as an adaptor in striated muscle to couple protein kinase C-mediated signaling, via its LIM domains, to the cytoskeleton (alpha-actinin-2) through its PDZ domain.
10393292	Structure of the histidine-containing phosphotransfer (HPt) domain of the anaerobic sensor protein ArcB complexed with the chemotaxis response regulator CheY.	The three-dimensional structure of the HPt domain of ArcB complexed with CheY has been determined using the molecular-replacement method. The structure was refined to a crystallographic R factor of 18.3% at 2.68 A resolution. The final model included 1899 protein atoms (117 residues from the HPt domain and 128 residues from CheY), one sulfate ion and 44 solvent molecules. In the crystal, CheY molecules stacked along the a axis of the cell with no interactions between neighbouring rows and the HPt domain bridged the CheY molecules. The phosphodonor residue His715 was fully exposed to the solvent region, even though the HPt domain was in contact with four molecules of CheY. CheY showed significant conformational change. This indicates that the HPt domain has a rigid structure when complexed with CheY.
10393295	Structures of the deoxy and CO forms of haemoglobin from Dasyatis akajei, a cartilaginous fish.	The three-dimensional structures of the deoxy- and carbonmonoxyhaemoglobin (Hb) from Dasyatis akajei, a stingray, have been determined at 1.6 and 1.9 A resolution, respectively. This is one of the most distantly related vertebrate Hbs to human HbA. Both structures resemble the respective forms of HbA, indicating that the alpha2beta2-type tetramer and the mode of the quaternary structure change are common to Hbs of jawed vertebrates. Larger deviations between D. akajei Hb and human HbA are observed in various parts of the molecule, even in the E and F helices. Significant mutations and/or conformational changes are also observed around the haems, in the C-terminal region of the beta subunit, in the alpha1beta2 interface and in the organic phosphate-binding site of HbA. Despite these structural differences, the oxygen affinity, haem-haem interaction, Bohr effect and organic phosphate effect of D. akajei Hb are all only moderately reduced. Compared with human HbA, the overall r.m.s. deviation of main-chain atoms in the helical regions of bony fish Hbs is smaller than that of D. akajei Hb.
10393905	Kinase interaction domain of kinase-associated protein phosphatase, a phosphoprotein-binding domain.	Kinase-associated protein phosphatase interacts specifically with plant receptor-like protein kinases. This interaction is thought to be a key step in signal perception and transduction. The minimal kinase interaction (KI) domain of kinase-associated protein phosphatase was mapped to a 119-aa segment spanning residues 180 to 298. A forkhead-associated (FHA) homology region resides in this minimal KI domain. Site-directed mutagenesis of four highly conserved sites in this FHA homology region abolishes the KI domain's interaction with receptor-like protein kinases, indicating that the FHA region is essential for binding. Serial deletion analysis indicates that 30 aa on each side of the FHA region are also needed for binding; this minimal functional unit is designated as the KI domain. Kinetic studies using surface plasmon resonance indicate that the binding between the KI domain and receptor-like protein kinases has a dissociation constant (KD) of about 25-100 nM, which is similar to the binding affinity of two other well characterized phosphorylation-dependent protein-binding domains (14-3-3 and Src homology 2) and their high-affinity phosphopeptide ligands.
10393912	Functional interaction between human topoisomerase IIalpha and retinoblastoma protein.	DNA topoisomerase II-an essential nuclear enzyme in DNA replication and transcription, chromatin segregation, and cell cycle progression-is also a target of clinically useful anticancer drugs. Preliminary observations of a positive correlation between the expression of topoisomerase (topo) IIalpha and the retinoblastoma protein (Rb) in a series of rhabdomyosarcoma cells prompted us to ask whether these two proteins interact in vivo. Using human rhabdomyosarcoma and leukemic cell lines, we found a physical association between topo IIalpha and Rb protein by reciprocal immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting, in which topo IIalpha appeared to interact primarily with the underphosphorylated form of Rb. Experiments with truncated glutathione S-transferase-Rb fusion proteins and nuclear extracts of Rh1 rhabdomyosarcoma cells indicated that topo IIalpha binds avidly to the A/B pocket domain of Rb, which contains the intact spacer amino acid sequence. To determine whether this interaction has functional consequences in vivo, we expressed wild-type and mutant Rb in human cervical carcinoma cells lacking functional Rb. Wild-type, but not mutant, Rb inhibited topo II activity in nuclear extracts of these transfected cells. Moreover, purified wild-type Rb inhibited the activity of purified human topo IIalpha, indicating a direct interaction between these two proteins. We conclude that topo IIalpha associates physically with Rb in interactions that appear to have functional significance.
10399914	Pak functions downstream of Dock to regulate photoreceptor axon guidance in Drosophila.	The SH2/SH3 adaptor protein Dock has been proposed to transduce signals from guidance receptors to the actin cytoskeleton in Drosophila photoreceptor (R cell) growth cones. Here, we demonstrate that Drosophila p21-activated kinase (Pak) is required in a Dock pathway regulating R cell axon guidance and targeting. Dock and Pak colocalize to R cell axons and growth cones, physically interact, and their loss-of-function phenotypes are indistinguishable. Normal patterns of R cell connectivity require Pak's kinase activity and binding sites for both Dock and Cdc42/Rac. A membrane-tethered form of Pak (Pak(myr) acts as a dominant gain-of-function protein. Retinal expression of Pak(myr) rescues the R cell connectivity phenotype in dock mutants. These data establish Pak as a critical regulator of axon guidance and a downstream effector of Dock in vivo.
10400593	Mutagenesis of the Agrobacterium VirE2 single-stranded DNA-binding protein identifies regions required for self-association and interaction with VirE1 and a permissive site for hybrid protein construction.	The VirE2 single-stranded DNA-binding protein (SSB) of Agrobacterium tumefaciens is required for delivery of T-DNA to the nuclei of susceptible plant cells. By yeast two-hybrid and immunoprecipitation analyses, VirE2 was shown to self-associate and to interact with VirE1. VirE2 mutants with small deletions or insertions of a 31-residue oligopeptide (i31) at the N or C terminus or with an i31 peptide insertion at Leu236 retained the capacity to form homomultimers. By contrast, VirE2 mutants with modifications outside a central region located between residues 320 and 390 retained the capacity to interact with VirE1. These findings suggest the tertiary structure of VirE2 is important for homomultimer formation whereas a central domain mediates formation of a complex with VirE1. The capacity of VirE2 mutants to interact with full-length VirE2 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae correlated with the abundance of the mutant proteins in A. tumefaciens, suggesting that VirE2 is stabilized by homomultimerization in the bacterium. We further characterized the promoter and N- and C-terminal sequence requirements for synthesis of functional VirE2. A PvirB::virE2 construct yielded functional VirE2 protein as defined by complementation of a virE2 null mutation. By contrast, PvirE or Plac promoter constructs yielded functional VirE2 only if virE1 was coexpressed with virE2. Deletion of 10 or 9 residues from the N or C terminus of VirE2, respectively, or addition of heterologous peptides or proteins to either terminus resulted in a loss of protein function. However, an i31 peptide insertion at Tyr39 had no effect on protein function as defined by the capacity of the mutant protein to (i) interact with native VirE2, (ii) interact with VirE1, (iii) accumulate at abundant levels in A. tumefaciens, and (iv) restore wild-type virulence to a virE2 null mutant. We propose that Tyr39 of VirE2 corresponds to a permissive site for insertion of heterologous peptides or proteins of interest for delivery across kingdom boundaries.
10400625	c-E10 is a caspase-recruiting domain-containing protein that interacts with components of death receptors signaling pathway and activates nuclear factor-kappaB.	Members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily induce apoptosis via interaction with FADD and regulate cell growth and differentiation through TRADD and TRAFs molecules. While screening for molecules involved in the regulation of death receptor signaling, we identified a novel protein, c-E10. c-E10 contains an amino-terminal caspase-recruiting domain (CARD) and shares a sequence homologous with E10, a viral CARD-containing protein that binds to c-E10. In transfection experiments c-E10 oligomerizes, binds to the cytoplasmic portion of TRAIL receptor 1 (DR4) and coprecipitates with TRADD. Expression of c-E10 under the control of a doxycycline-dependent transcriptional transactivator results in NF-kappaB activation, which is inhibited by dominant negative forms of TRAF2 and NIK kinase. Thus, our results suggest that c-E10 is an adapter protein that activates NF-kappaB through a molecular pathway involved in death receptor signaling.
10400669	DRBP76, a double-stranded RNA-binding nuclear protein, is phosphorylated by the interferon-induced protein kinase, PKR.	The interferon-induced double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase PKR is the prototype of a class of double-stranded (dsRNA)-binding proteins (DRBPs) which share a dsRNA-binding motif conserved from Drosophila to humans. Here we report the purification of DRBP76, a new human member of this class of proteins. Sequence from the amino terminus of DRBP76 matched that of the M phase-specific protein, MPP4. DRBP76 was also cloned by the yeast two-hybrid screening of a cDNA library using a mutant PKR as bait. Analysis of the cDNA sequence revealed that it is the full-length version of MPP4, has a bipartite nuclear localization signal, two motifs that can mediate interactions with both dsRNA and PKR, five epitopes for potential M phase-specific phosphorylation, two potential sites for phosphorylation by cyclin-dependent kinases, a RG2 motif present in many RNA-binding proteins and predicts a protein of 76 kDa. DsRNA and PKR interactions of DRBP76 were confirmed by analysis of in vitro translated and purified native proteins. Cellular expression of an epitope-tagged DRBP76 demonstrated its nuclear localization, and its co-immunoprecipitation with PKR demonstrated that the two proteins interact in vivo. Finally, purified DRBP76 was shown to be a substrate of PKR in vitro, indicating that this protein's cellular activities may be regulated by PKR-mediated phosphorylation.
10400677	SIP1, a novel zinc finger/homeodomain repressor, interacts with Smad proteins and binds to 5'-CACCT sequences in candidate target genes.	Activation of transforming growth factor beta receptors causes the phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of Smad proteins, which then participate in the regulation of expression of target genes. We describe a novel Smad-interacting protein, SIP1, which was identified using the yeast two-hybrid system. Although SIP1 interacts with the MH2 domain of receptor-regulated Smads in yeast and in vitro, its interaction with full-length Smads in mammalian cells requires receptor-mediated Smad activation. SIP1 is a new member of the deltaEF1/Zfh-1 family of two-handed zinc finger/homeodomain proteins. Like deltaEF1, SIP1 binds to 5'-CACCT sequences in different promoters, including the Xenopus brachyury promoter. Overexpression of either full-length SIP1 or its C-terminal zinc finger cluster, which bind to the Xbra2 promoter in vitro, prevented expression of the endogenous Xbra gene in early Xenopus embryos. Therefore, SIP1, like deltaEF1, is likely to be a transcriptional repressor, which may be involved in the regulation of at least one immediate response gene for activin-dependent signal transduction pathways. The identification of this Smad-interacting protein opens new routes to investigate the mechanisms by which transforming growth factor beta members exert their effects on expression of target genes in responsive cells and in the vertebrate embryo.
10400690	Regulation of neuronal nitric-oxide synthase by calmodulin kinases.	Phosphorylation of neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) by Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM)-dependent protein kinases (CaM kinases) including CaM kinase Ialpha (CaM-K Ialpha), CaM kinase IIalpha (CaM-K IIalpha), and CaM kinase IV (CaM-K IV), was studied. It was found that purified recombinant nNOS was phosphorylated by CaM-K Ialpha, CaM-K IIalpha, and CaM-K IV at Ser847 in vitro. Replacement of Ser847 with Ala (S847A) prevented phosphorylation by CaM kinases. Phosphorylated recombinant wild-type nNOS at Ser847 (approximately 0.5 mol of phosphate incorporation into nNOS) exhibited a 30% decrease of Vmax with little change of both the Km for L-arginine and Kact for CaM relative to unphosphorylated enzyme. The activity of mutant S847D was decreased to a level 50-60% as much as the wild-type enzyme. The decreased NOS enzyme activity of phosphorylated nNOS at Ser847 and mutant S847D was partially due to suppression of CaM binding, but not to impairment of dimer formation which is thought to be essential for enzyme activation. Inactive nNOS lacking CaM-binding ability was generated by mutation of Lys732-Lys-Leu to Asp732-Asp-Glu (Watanabe, Y., Hu, Y., and Hidaka, H. (1997) FEBS Lett. 403, 75-78). It was phosphorylated by CaM kinases, as was the wild-type enzyme, indicating that CaM-nNOS binding was not required for the phosphorylation reaction. We developed antibody NP847, which specifically recognize nNOS in its phosphorylated state at Ser847. Using the antibody NP847, we obtained evidence that nNOS is phosphorylated at Ser847 in rat brain. Thus, our results suggest that CaM kinase-induced phosphorylation of nNOS at Ser847 alters the activity control of this enzyme.
10404223	The GYF domain is a novel structural fold that is involved in lymphoid signaling through proline-rich sequences.	T cell activation through the CD2 cell surface receptor is transmitted by proline-rich sequences within its cytoplasmic tail. A membrane-proximal proline-rich tandem repeat, involved in cytokine production, is recognized by the intracellular CD2 binding protein CD2BP2. We solved the solution structure of the CD2 binding domain of CD2BP2, which we name the glycine-tyrosine-phenylalanine (GYF) domain. The GYF sequence is part of a structurally unique bulge-helix-bulge motif that constitutes the major binding site for the CD2 tail. A hydrophobic surface patch is created by motif residues that are highly conserved among a variety of proteins from diverse eukaryotic species. Thus, the architecture of the GYF domain may be widely used in protein-protein associations.
10409742	Kinase suppressor of Ras forms a multiprotein signaling complex and modulates MEK localization.	Genetic screens for modifiers of activated Ras phenotypes have identified a novel protein, kinase suppressor of Ras (KSR), which shares significant sequence homology with Raf family protein kinases. Studies using Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans predict that KSR positively regulates Ras signaling; however, the function of mammalian KSR is not well understood. We show here that two predicted kinase-dead mutants of KSR retain the ability to complement ksr-1 loss-of-function alleles in C. elegans, suggesting that KSR may have physiological, kinase-independent functions. Furthermore, we observe that murine KSR forms a multimolecular signaling complex in human embryonic kidney 293T cells composed of HSP90, HSP70, HSP68, p50(CDC37), MEK1, MEK2, 14-3-3, and several other, unidentified proteins. Treatment of cells with geldanamycin, an inhibitor of HSP90, decreases the half-life of KSR, suggesting that HSPs may serve to stabilize KSR. Both nematode and mammalian KSRs are capable of binding to MEKs, and three-point mutants of KSR, corresponding to C. elegans loss-of-function alleles, are specifically compromised in MEK binding. KSR did not alter MEK activity or activation. However, KSR-MEK binding shifts the apparent molecular mass of MEK from 44 to >700 kDa, and this results in the appearance of MEK in membrane-associated fractions. Together, these results suggest that KSR may act as a scaffolding protein for the Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway.
10411906	Suppression of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1-induced cell death by 14-3-3 proteins.	Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) is a pivotal component of a signaling pathway induced by many death stimuli, including tumor necrosis factor alpha, Fas, and the anticancer drugs cisplatin and paclitaxel. Here we report that ASK1 proapoptotic activity is antagonized by association with 14-3-3 proteins. We found that ASK1 specifically bound 14-3-3 proteins via a site involving Ser-967 of ASK1. Interestingly, overexpression of 14-3-3 in HeLa cells blocked ASK1-induced apoptosis whereas disruption of the ASK1/14-3-3 interaction dramatically accelerated ASK1-induced cell death. Targeting of ASK1 by a 14-3-3-mediated survival pathway may provide a novel mechanism for the suppression of apoptosis.
10414980	Cloning and characterization of neuropilin-1-interacting protein: a PSD-95/Dlg/ZO-1 domain-containing protein that interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of neuropilin-1.	Neuropilin-1 (Npn-1), a receptor for semaphorin III, mediates the guidance of growth cones on extending neurites. The molecular mechanism of Npn-1 signaling remains unclear. We have used a yeast two-hybrid system to isolate a protein that interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of Npn-1. This Npn-1-interacting protein (NIP) contains a central PSD-95/Dlg/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain and a C-terminal acyl carrier protein domain. The physiological interaction of Npn-1 and NIP is supported by co-immunoprecipitation of these two proteins in extracts from a heterologous expression system and from a native tissue. The C-terminal three amino acids of Npn-1 (S-E-A-COOH), which is conserved from Xenopus to human, is responsible for interaction with the PDZ domain-containing C-terminal two-thirds of NIP. NIP as well as Npn-1 are broadly expressed in mice as assayed by Northern and Western analysis. Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization experiments revealed that NIP expression overlaps with that of Npn-1. NIP has been independently cloned as RGS-GAIP-interacting protein (GIPC), where it was identified by virtue of its interaction with the C terminus of RGS-GAIP and suggested to participate in clathrin-coated vesicular trafficking. We suggest that NIP and GIPC may participate in regulation of Npn-1-mediated signaling as a molecular adapter that couples Npn-1 to membrane trafficking machinery in the dynamic axon growth cone.
10419510	Interaction of mitogen-activated protein kinases with the kinase interaction motif of the tyrosine phosphatase PTP-SL provides substrate specificity and retains ERK2 in the cytoplasm.	ERK1 and ERK2 associate with the tyrosine phosphatase PTP-SL through a kinase interaction motif (KIM) located in the juxtamembrane region of PTP-SL. A glutathione S-transferase (GST)-PTP-SL fusion protein containing the KIM associated with ERK1 and ERK2 as well as with p38/HOG, but not with the related JNK1 kinase or with protein kinase A or C. Accordingly, ERK2 showed in vitro substrate specificity to phosphorylate GST-PTP-SL in comparison with GST-c-Jun. Furthermore, tyrosine dephosphorylation of ERK2 by the PTP-SLDeltaKIM mutant was impaired. The in vitro association of ERK1/2 with GST-PTP-SL was highly stable; however, low concentrations of nucleotides partially dissociated the ERK1/2.PTP-SL complex. Partial deletions of the KIM abrogated the association of PTP-SL with ERK1/2, indicating that KIM integrity is required for interaction. Amino acid substitution analysis revealed that Arg and Leu residues within the KIM are essential for the interaction and suggested a regulatory role for Ser(231). Finally, coexpression of PTP-SL and ERK2 in COS-7 cells resulted in the retention of ERK2 in the cytoplasm in a KIM-dependent manner. Our results demonstrate that the noncatalytic region of PTP-SL associates with mitogen-activated protein kinases with high affinity and specificity, providing a mechanism for substrate specificity, and suggest a role for PTP-SL in the regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase translocation to the nucleus upon activation.
10419536	Calmodulin binding to G protein-coupling domain of opioid receptors.	The ubiquitous intracellular Ca(2+) sensor calmodulin (CaM) regulates numerous proteins involved in cellular signaling of G protein-coupled receptors, but most known interactions between GPCRs and CaM occur downstream of the receptor. Using a sequence-based motif search, we have identified the third intracellular loop of the opioid receptor family as a possible direct contact point for interaction with CaM, in addition to its established role in G protein activation. Peptides derived from the third intracellular loop of the mu-opioid (OP(3)) receptor strongly bound CaM and were able to reduce binding interactions observed between CaM and immunopurified OP(3) receptor. Functionally, CaM reduced basal and agonist-stimulated (35)S-labeled guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio)triphosphate incorporation, a measure of G protein activation, in membranes containing recombinant OP(3) receptor. Changes in CaM membrane levels as a result of overexpression or antisense CaM suppression inversely affected basal and agonist-induced G protein activation. The ability of CaM to abolish high affinity binding sites of an agonist at OP(3) further supports the hypothesis of a direct interaction between CaM and opioid receptors. An OP(3) receptor mutant with a Lys(273) --> Ala substitution (K273A-OP(3)), an amino acid predicted to play a critical role in CaM binding based on motif structure, was found to be unaffected by changes in CaM levels but coupled more efficiently to G proteins than the wild-type receptor. Stimulation of both the OP(1) (delta-opioid) and OP(3) wild-type receptors, but not the K273A-OP(3) mutant, induced release of CaM from the plasma membrane. These results suggest that CaM directly competes with G proteins for binding to opioid receptors and that CaM may itself serve as an independent second messenger molecule that is released upon receptor stimulation.
10419942	Role of TolR N-terminal, central, and C-terminal domains in dimerization and interaction with TolA and tolQ.	The Tol-PAL system of Escherichia coli is a multiprotein system involved in maintaining the cell envelope integrity and is necessary for the import of some colicins and phage DNA into the bacterium. It is organized into two complexes, one near the outer membrane between TolB and PAL and one in the cytoplasmic membrane between TolA, TolQ, and TolR. In the cytoplasmic membrane, all of the Tol proteins have been shown to interact with each other. Cross-linking experiments have shown that the TolA transmembrane domain interacts with TolQ and TolR. Suppressor mutant analyses have localized the TolQ-TolA interaction to the first transmembrane domain of TolQ and have shown that the third transmembrane domain of TolQ interacts with the transmembrane domain of TolR. To get insights on the composition of the cytoplasmic membrane complex and its possible contacts with the outer membrane complex, we focused our attention on TolR. Cross-linking and immunoprecipitation experiments allowed the identification of Tol proteins interacting with TolR. The interactions of TolR with TolA and TolQ were confirmed, TolR was shown to dimerize, and the resulting dimer was shown to interact with TolQ. Deletion mutants of TolR were constructed, and they allowed us to determine the TolR domains involved in each interaction. The TolR transmembrane domain was shown to be involved in the TolA-TolR and TolQ-TolR interactions, while TolR central and C-terminal domains appeared to be involved in TolR dimerization. The role of the TolR C-terminal domain in the TolA-TolR interaction and its association with the membranes was also demonstrated. Furthermore, phenotypic studies clearly showed that the three TolR domains (N terminal, central, and C terminal) and the level of TolR production are important for colicin A import and for the maintenance of cell envelope integrity.
10426958	Crystal structure of 2-oxoisovalerate and dehydrogenase and the architecture of 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase multienzyme complexes.	The family of giant multienzyme complexes metabolizing pyruvate, 2-oxoglutarate, branched-chain 2-oxo acids or acetoin contains several of the largest and most sophisticated protein assemblies known, with molecular masses between 4 and 10 million Da. The principal enzyme components, E1, E2 and E3, are present in numerous copies and utilize multiple cofactors to catalyze a directed sequence of reactions via substrate channeling. The crystal structure of a heterotetrameric (alpha2beta2) E1, 2-oxoisovalerate dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas putida, reveals a tightly packed arrangement of the four subunits with the beta2-dimer held between the jaws of a 'vise' formed by the alpha2-dimer. A long hydrophobic channel, suitable to accommodate the E2 lipoyl-lysine arm, leads to the active site, which contains the cofactor thiamin diphosphate (ThDP) and an inhibitor-derived covalent modification of a histidine side chain. The E1 structure, together with previous structural information on E2 and E3, completes the picture of the shared architectural features of these enormous macromolecular assemblies.
10426999	Association of BRCA1 with the hRad50-hMre11-p95 complex and the DNA damage response.	BRCA1 encodes a tumor suppressor that is mutated in familial breast and ovarian cancers. Here, it is shown that BRCA1 interacts in vitro and in vivo with hRad50, which forms a complex with hMre11 and p95/nibrin. Upon irradiation, BRCA1 was detected in discrete foci in the nucleus, which colocalize with hRad50. Formation of irradiation-induced foci positive for BRCA1, hRad50, hMre11, or p95 was dramatically reduced in HCC/1937 breast cancer cells carrying a homozygous mutation in BRCA1 but was restored by transfection of wild-type BRCA1. Ectopic expression of wild-type, but not mutated, BRCA1 in these cells rendered them less sensitive to the DNA damage agent, methyl methanesulfonate. These data suggest that BRCA1 is important for the cellular responses to DNA damage that are mediated by the hRad50-hMre11-p95 complex.
10428862	Independent SH2-binding sites mediate interaction of Dok-related protein with RasGTPase-activating protein and Nck.	A murine embryonic cDNA library was screened for potential substrates of the Src family kinase, Lyn, using a phosphorylation-screening strategy. One cDNA that we identified encodes Dok-related protein (DokR), a protein with homology to p62(dok) (Dok), and members of the insulin receptor substrate-1 family of proteins. Analysis of murine tissue extracts with DokR-specific antisera revealed that DokR protein is expressed at highest levels in lymphoid tissues. Co-expression of a FLAG epitope-tagged form of DokR (FLAG-DokR) with Lyn in embryonic kidney 293T cells resulted in constitutive phosphorylation of FLAG-DokR on tyrosine residues and consequential physical association with RasGTPase-activating protein (GAP) and the Nck adaptor protein. Stimulation of BaF/3 hematopoietic cells co-expressing the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor tyrosine kinase and FLAG-DokR with EGF also induced phosphorylation of FLAG-DokR and promoted its association with GAP. Immunoprecipitation experiments using DokR-specific antibodies revealed an interaction between endogenous DokR and a 150-kDa protein that is tyrosine-phosphorylated in EGF-stimulated BaF/3 cells. The molecular basis of the interactions involving DokR with GAP and Nck was investigated using a novel glutathione S-transferase fusion protein binding assay and/or site-directed mutagenesis. Tandem SH2-binding sites containing Tyr-276 and Tyr-304 were shown to mediate binding of DokR to GAP, whereas Tyr-351 mediated the binding of DokR to Nck. These results suggest that DokR participates in numerous signaling pathways.
10428961	Axin and Frat1 interact with dvl and GSK, bridging Dvl to GSK in Wnt-mediated regulation of LEF-1.	Wnt proteins transduce their signals through dishevelled (Dvl) proteins to inhibit glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK), leading to the accumulation of cytosolic beta-catenin and activation of TCF/LEF-1 transcription factors. To understand the mechanism by which Dvl acts through GSK to regulate LEF-1, we investigated the roles of Axin and Frat1 in Wnt-mediated activation of LEF-1 in mammalian cells. We found that Dvl interacts with Axin and with Frat1, both of which interact with GSK. Similarly, the Frat1 homolog GBP binds Xenopus Dishevelled in an interaction that requires GSK. We also found that Dvl, Axin and GSK can form a ternary complex bridged by Axin, and that Frat1 can be recruited into this complex probably by Dvl. The observation that the Dvl-binding domain of either Frat1 or Axin was able to inhibit Wnt-1-induced LEF-1 activation suggests that the interactions between Dvl and Axin and between Dvl and Frat may be important for this signaling pathway. Furthermore, Wnt-1 appeared to promote the disintegration of the Frat1-Dvl-GSK-Axin complex, resulting in the dissociation of GSK from Axin. Thus, formation of the quaternary complex may be an important step in Wnt signaling, by which Dvl recruits Frat1, leading to Frat1-mediated dissociation of GSK from Axin.
10429675	Structure of human histocompatibility leukocyte antigen (HLA)-Cw4, a ligand for the KIR2D natural killer cell inhibitory receptor.	The crystal structure of the human class I major histocompatibility complex molecule, human histocompatibility leukocyte antigen (HLA)-Cw4, the ligand for a natural killer (NK) cell inhibitory receptor, has been determined, complexed with a nonameric consensus peptide (QYDDAVYKL). Relative to HLA-A2, the peptide binding groove is widened around the COOH terminus of the alpha 1 helix, which contains residues that determine the specificity of HLA-Cw4 for the inhibitory NK receptor, KIR2D. The structure reveals an unusual pattern of internal hydrogen bonding among peptide residues. The peptide is anchored in four specificity pockets in the cleft and secured by extensive hydrogen bonds between the peptide main chain and the cleft. The surface of HLA-Cw4 has electrostatic complementarity to the surface of the NK cell inhibitory receptor KIR2D.
10430869	Crystal structure of the alpha appendage of AP-2 reveals a recruitment platform for clathrin-coat assembly.	AP-2 adaptors regulate clathrin-bud formation at the cell surface by recruiting clathrin trimers to the plasma membrane and by selecting certain membrane proteins for inclusion within the developing clathrin-coat structure. These functions are performed by discrete subunits of the adaptor heterotetramer. The carboxyl-terminal appendage of the AP-2 alpha subunit appears to regulate the translocation of several endocytic accessory proteins to the bud site. We have determined the crystal structure of the alpha appendage at 1.4-A resolution by multiwavelength anomalous diffraction phasing. It is composed of two distinct structural modules, a beta-sandwich domain and a mixed alpha-beta platform domain. Structure-based mutagenesis shows that alterations to the molecular surface of a highly conserved region on the platform domain differentially affect associations of the appendage with amphiphysin, eps15, epsin, and AP180, revealing a common protein-binding interface.
10433268	Shank, a novel family of postsynaptic density proteins that binds to the NMDA receptor/PSD-95/GKAP complex and cortactin.	NMDA receptors are linked to intracellular cytoskeletal and signaling molecules via the PSD-95 protein complex. We report a novel family of postsynaptic density (PSD) proteins, termed Shank, that binds via its PDZ domain to the C terminus of PSD-95-associated protein GKAP. A ternary complex of Shank/GKAP/PSD-95 assembles in heterologous cells and can be coimmunoprecipitated from rat brain. Synaptic localization of Shank in neurons is inhibited by a GKAP splice variant that lacks the Shank-binding C terminus. In addition to its PDZ domain, Shank contains a proline-rich region that binds to cortactin and a SAM domain that mediates multimerization. Shank may function as a scaffold protein in the PSD, potentially cross-linking NMDA receptor/PSD-95 complexes and coupling them to regulators of the actin cytoskeleton.
10435614	Mdm2 binds p73 alpha without targeting degradation.	The function of the p53 tumor suppressor protein is regulated by interaction with Mdm2, which targets p53 for ubiquitin dependent degradation. We show here that like p53, p73 alpha forms an interaction with Mdm2, both in vitro and in cells, but this does not result in the degradation of the p73 alpha protein. The human papillomavirus E6 protein also fails to degrade p73 alpha, suggesting that the mechanisms governing p73 alpha stability are distinct from those known to regulate p53 stability. However, the interaction of Mdm2 with 73 alpha is sufficient to impede p73 alpha transcriptional function, despite the lack of degradation.
10436013	ERp57 functions as a subunit of specific complexes formed with the ER lectins calreticulin and calnexin.	ERp57 is a lumenal protein of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and a member of the protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) family. In contrast to archetypal PDI, ERp57 interacts specifically with newly synthesized glycoproteins. In this study we demonstrate that ERp57 forms discrete complexes with the ER lectins, calnexin and calreticulin. Specific ERp57/calreticulin complexes exist in canine pancreatic microsomes, as demonstrated by SDS-PAGE after cross-linking, and by native electrophoresis in the absence of cross-linking. After in vitro translation and import into microsomes, radiolabeled ERp57 can be cross-linked to endogenous calreticulin and calnexin while radiolabeled PDI cannot. Likewise, radiolabeled calreticulin is cross-linked to endogenous ERp57 but not PDI. Similar results were obtained in Lec23 cells, which lack the glucosidase I necessary to produce glycoprotein substrates capable of binding to calnexin and calreticulin. This observation indicates that ERp57 interacts with both of the ER lectins in the absence of their glycoprotein substrate. This result was confirmed by a specific interaction between in vitro synthesized calreticulin and ERp57 prepared in solution in the absence of other ER components. We conclude that ERp57 forms complexes with both calnexin and calreticulin and propose that it is these complexes that can specifically modulate glycoprotein folding within the ER lumen.
10441394	Phosphorylation-dependent association of the Ras-related GTP-binding protein Rem with 14-3-3 proteins.	Rem belongs to a subfamily of Ras-related GTPases that includes Rad, Gem, and Kir. These proteins are unique among the Ras superfamily since their expression is under transcriptional regulation and they contain distinct amino and carboxyl termini. To gain insight into the cellular function of Rem, we have undertaken an expression screen using a mouse embryo cDNA library to identify Rem-interacting proteins and find that Rem interacts with a series of 14-3-3 isoforms (epsilon, eta, theta, and zeta). Immunoprecipitation studies demonstrate an interaction that is independent of the nucleotide state of Rem. Rem is phosphorylated in vivo, and binding of Rem to 14-3-3zeta is abolished by pretreating Rem with protein phosphatase 1. Thus, the association of Rem and 14-3-3zeta is phosphorylation-dependent. Examination of the interaction between 14-3-3zeta and various Rem deletion mutants mapped a critical binding site to the C-terminus of Rem. Finally, we demonstrate the interaction of Rad but not the newly identified Rem2 protein with 14-3-3 proteins. These results suggest that 14-3-3 may allow the recruitment of distinct proteins that participate in Rem-mediated signal transduction pathways.
10446050	Structural basis of chaperone function and pilus biogenesis.	Many Gram-negative pathogens assemble architecturally and functionally diverse adhesive pili on their surfaces by the chaperone-usher pathway. Immunoglobulin-like periplasmic chaperones escort pilus subunits to the usher, a large protein complex that facilitates the translocation and assembly of subunits across the outer membrane. The crystal structure of the PapD-PapK chaperone-subunit complex, determined at 2.4 angstrom resolution, reveals that the chaperone functions by donating its G(1) beta strand to complete the immunoglobulin-like fold of the subunit via a mechanism termed donor strand complementation. The structure of the PapD-PapK complex also suggests that during pilus biogenesis, every subunit completes the immunoglobulin-like fold of its neighboring subunit via a mechanism termed donor strand exchange.
10446149	M-Ras/R-Ras3, a transforming ras protein regulated by Sos1, GRF1, and p120 Ras GTPase-activating protein, interacts with the putative Ras effector AF6.	M-Ras is a Ras-related protein that shares approximately 55% identity with K-Ras and TC21. The M-Ras message was widely expressed but was most predominant in ovary and brain. Similarly to Ha-Ras, expression of mutationally activated M-Ras in NIH 3T3 mouse fibroblasts or C2 myoblasts resulted in cellular transformation or inhibition of differentiation, respectively. M-Ras only weakly activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2), but it cooperated with Raf, Rac, and Rho to induce transforming foci in NIH 3T3 cells, suggesting that M-Ras signaled via alternate pathways to these effectors. Although the mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase inhibitor, PD98059, blocked M-Ras-induced transformation, M-Ras was more effective than an activated mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase mutant at inducing focus formation. These data indicate that multiple pathways must contribute to M-Ras-induced transformation. M-Ras interacted poorly in a yeast two-hybrid assay with multiple Ras effectors, including c-Raf-1, A-Raf, B-Raf, phosphoinositol-3 kinase delta, RalGDS, and Rin1. Although M-Ras coimmunoprecipitated with AF6, a putative regulator of cell junction formation, overexpression of AF6 did not contribute to fibroblast transformation, suggesting the possibility of novel effector proteins. The M-Ras GTP/GDP cycle was sensitive to the Ras GEFs, Sos1, and GRF1 and to p120 Ras GAP. Together, these findings suggest that while M-Ras is regulated by similar upstream stimuli to Ha-Ras, novel targets may be responsible for its effects on cellular transformation and differentiation.
10446169	Interaction of Alzheimer's presenilin-1 and presenilin-2 with Bcl-X(L). A potential role in modulating the threshold of cell death.	The familial Alzheimer's disease gene products, presenilin-1 and presenilin-2, have been reported to be functionally involved in amyloid precursor protein processing, notch receptor signaling, and programmed cell death or apoptosis. However, the molecular mechanisms by which presenilins regulate these processes remain unknown. With regard to the latter, we describe a molecular link between presenilins and the apoptotic pathway. Bcl-X(L), an anti-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family was shown to interact with the carboxyl-terminal fragments of PS1 and PS2 by the yeast two-hybrid system. In vivo interaction analysis revealed that both PS2 and its naturally occurring carboxyl-terminal products, PS2short and PS2Ccas, associated with Bcl-X(L), whereas the caspase-3-generated amino-terminal PS2Ncas fragment did not. This interaction was corroborated by demonstrating that Bcl-X(L) and PS2 partially co-localized to sites of the vesicular transport system. Functional analysis revealed that presenilins can influence mitochondrial-dependent apoptotic activities, such as cytochrome c release and Bax-mediated apoptosis. Together, these data support a possible role of the Alzheimer's presenilins in modulating the anti-apoptotic effects of Bcl-X(L).
10449404	Yeast epsins contain an essential N-terminal ENTH domain, bind clathrin and are required for endocytosis.	The mammalian protein epsin is required for endocytosis. In this study, we have characterized two homologous yeast proteins, Ent1p and Ent2p, which are similar to mammalian epsin. An essential function for the highly conserved N-terminal epsin N-terminal homology (ENTH) domain was revealed using deletions and randomly generated temperature-sensitive ent1 alleles. Changes in conserved ENTH domain residues in ent1(ts) cells revealed defects in endocytosis and actin cytoskeleton structure. The Ent1 protein was localized to peripheral and internal punctate structures, and biochemical fractionation studies found the protein associated with a large, Triton X-100-insoluble pellet. Finally, an Ent1p clathrin-binding domain was mapped to the final eight amino acids (RGYTLIDL*) in the Ent1 protein sequence. Based on these and other data, we propose that the yeast epsin-like proteins are essential components of an endocytic complex that may act at multiple stages in the endocytic pathway.
10449718	The crystal structure of anthranilate synthase from Sulfolobus solfataricus: functional implications.	Anthranilate synthase catalyzes the synthesis of anthranilate from chorismate and glutamine and is feedback-inhibited by tryptophan. The enzyme of the hyperthermophile Sulfolobus solfataricus has been crystallized in the absence of physiological ligands, and its three-dimensional structure has been determined at 2.5-A resolution with x-ray crystallography. It is a heterotetramer of anthranilate synthase (TrpE) and glutamine amidotransferase (TrpG) subunits, in which two TrpG:TrpE protomers associate mainly via the TrpG subunits. The small TrpG subunit (195 residues) has the known "triad" glutamine amidotransferase fold. The large TrpE subunit (421 residues) has a novel fold. It displays a cleft between two domains, the tips of which contact the TrpG subunit across its active site. Clusters of catalytically essential residues are located inside the cleft, spatially separated from clustered residues involved in feedback inhibition. The structure suggests a model in which chorismate binding triggers a relative movement of the two domain tips of the TrpE subunit, activating the TrpG subunit and creating a channel for passage of ammonia toward the active site of the TrpE subunit. Tryptophan presumably blocks this rearrangement, thus stabilizing the inactive states of both subunits. The structure of the TrpE subunit is a likely prototype for the related enzymes 4-amino 4-deoxychorismate synthase and isochorismate synthase.
10449734	A mechanism for Rb/p130-mediated transcription repression involving recruitment of the CtBP corepressor.	Previous work has demonstrated the critical role for transcription repression in quiescent cells through the action of E2F-Rb or E2F-p130 complexes. Recent studies have shown that at least one mechanism for this repression involves the recruitment of histone deacetylase. Nevertheless, these studies also suggest that other events likely contribute to E2F/Rb-mediated repression. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify proteins that specifically interact with the Rb-related p130 protein, we demonstrate that p130, as well as Rb, interacts with a protein known as CtIP. This interaction depends on the p130 pocket domain, which is important for repression activity, as well as an LXCXE sequence within CtIP, a motif previously shown to mediate interactions of viral proteins with Rb. CtIP interacts with CtBP, a protein named for its ability to interact with the C-terminal sequences of adenovirus E1A. Recent work has demonstrated that the Drosophila homologue of CtBP is a transcriptional corepressor for Hairy, Knirps, and Snail. We now show that both CtIP and CtBP can efficiently repress transcription when recruited to a promoter by the Gal4 DNA binding domain, thereby identifying them as corepressor proteins. Moreover, the full repression activity of CtIP requires a PLDLS domain that is also necessary for the interaction with CtBP. We propose that E2F-mediated repression involves at least two events, either the recruitment of a histone deacetylase or the recruitment of the CtIP/CtBP corepressor complex.
10455105	Association of neuronal calcium channels with modular adaptor proteins.	Presynaptic voltage-gated calcium (Ca(2+)) channels mediate Ca(2+) influx into the presynaptic terminal that triggers synaptic vesicle fusion and neurotransmitter release. The immediate proximity of Ca(2+) channels to the synaptic vesicle release apparatus is critical for rapid and efficient synaptic transmission. In a series of biochemical experiments, we demonstrate a specific association of the cytosolic carboxyl terminus of the N-type Ca(2+) channel pore-forming alpha(1B) subunit with the modular adaptor proteins Mint1 and CASK. The carboxyl termini of alpha(1B) bind to the first PDZ domain of Mint1 (Mint1-1). The proline-rich region present in the carboxyl termini of alpha(1B) binds to the SH3 domain of CASK. Mint1-1 is specific for the E/D-X-W-C/S-COOH consensus, which defines a novel class of PDZ domains (class III). The Mint1-1 PDZ domain-binding motif is present only in the "long" carboxyl-terminal splice variants of N-type (alpha(1B)) and P/Q-type (alpha(1A)) Ca(2+) channels, but not in R-type (alpha(1E)) or L-type (alpha(1C)) Ca(2+) channels. Our results directly link presynaptic Ca(2+) channels to a macromolecular complex formed by modular adaptor proteins at synaptic junction and advance our understanding of coupling between cell adhesion and synaptic vesicle exocytosis.
10458166	A SMAD ubiquitin ligase targets the BMP pathway and affects embryonic pattern formation.	The TGF-beta superfamily of proteins regulates many different biological processes, including cell growth, differentiation and embryonic pattern formation. TGF-beta-like factors signal across cell membranes through complexes of transmembrane receptors known as type I and type II serine/threonine-kinase receptors, which in turn activate the SMAD signalling pathway. On the inside of the cell membrane, a receptor-regulated class of SMADs are phosphorylated by the type-I-receptor kinase. In this way, receptors for different factors are able to pass on specific signals along the pathway: for example, receptors for bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) target SMADs 1, 5 and 8, whereas receptors for activin and TGF-beta target SMADs 2 and 3. Phosphorylation of receptor-regulated SMADs induces their association with Smad4, the 'common-partner' SMAD, and stimulates accumulation of this complex in the nucleus, where it regulates transcriptional responses. Here we describe Smurf1, a new member of the Hect family of E3 ubiquitin ligases. Smurf1 selectively interacts with receptor-regulated SMADs specific for the BMP pathway in order to trigger their ubiquitination and degradation, and hence their inactivation. In the amphibian Xenopus laevis, Smurf1 messenger RNA is localized to the animal pole of the egg; in Xenopus embryos, ectopic Smurf1 inhibits the transmission of BMP signals and thereby affects pattern formation. Smurf1 also enhances cellular responsiveness to the Smad2 (activin/TGF-beta) pathway. Thus, targeted ubiquitination of SMADs may serve to control both embryonic development and a wide variety of cellular responses to TGF-beta signals.
10465793	A novel p34(cdc2)-binding and activating protein that is necessary and sufficient to trigger G(2)/M progression in Xenopus oocytes.	The activation of maturation-promoting factor (MPF) is required for G(2)/M progression in eukaryotic cells. Xenopus oocytes are arrested in G(2) and are induced to enter M phase of meiosis by progesterone stimulation. This process is known as meiotic maturation and requires the translation of specific maternal mRNAs stored in the oocytes. We have used an expression cloning strategy to functionally identify proteins involved in G(2)/M progression in Xenopus oocytes. Here we report the cloning of two novel cDNAs that when expressed in oocytes induce meiotic maturation efficiently. The two cDNAs encode proteins of 33 kD that are 88% identical and have no significant homologies to other sequences in databases. These proteins, which we refer to as p33(ringo) (rapid inducer of G(2)/M progression in oocytes), induce very rapid MPF activation in cycloheximide-treated oocytes. Conversely, ablation of endogenous p33(ringo) mRNAs using antisense oligonucleotides inhibits progesterone-induced maturation, suggesting that synthesis of p33(ringo) is required for this process. We also show that p33(ringo) binds to and activates the kinase activity of p34(cdc2) but does not associate with p34(cdc2)/cyclin B complexes. Our results identify a novel p34(cdc2) binding and activating protein that regulates the G(2)/M transition during oocyte maturation.
10467092	A novel target recognition revealed by calmodulin in complex with Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent kinase kinase.	The structure of calcium-bound calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM) complexed with a 26-residue peptide, corresponding to the CaM-binding domain of rat Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein kinase kinase (CaMKK), has been determined by NMR spectroscopy. In this complex, the CaMKK peptide forms a fold comprising an alpha-helix and a hairpin-like loop whose C-terminus folds back on itself. The binding orientation of this CaMKK peptide by the two CaM domains is opposite to that observed in all other CaM-target complexes determined so far. The N- and C-terminal hydrophobic pockets of Ca2+/CaM anchor Trp 444 and Phe 459 of the CaMKK peptide, respectively. This 14-residue separation between two key hydrophobic groups is also unique among previously determined CaM complexes. The present structure represents a new and distinct class of Ca2+/CaM target recognition that may be shared by other Ca2+/CaM-stimulated proteins.
10467411	Evidence for SH3 domain directed binding and phosphorylation of Sam68 by Src.	Sam68 is a 68 kDa protein that associates with and is phosphorylated by the c-Src kinase at mitosis. It contains a KH domain implicated in RNA binding and several proline-rich motifs that resemble known SH3 binding sites. The SH3 domains of c-Src, phosphatidylinositol 3-OH kinase, phospholipase C-gamma and Grb2 protein (containing two SH3 domains), but not other SH3 domains tested, were capable of binding Sam68 in vitro. Synthetic peptides corresponding to the proline motifs of Sam68 inhibited with different efficiencies the binding of SH3 domains to Sam68 suggesting that the proline motifs of Sam68 function as specific SH3 domain binding sites. Mutation of Sam68 SH3 binding sites further indicated that the SRC SH3 domain mediates binding of Src to unphosphorylated Sam68. Phosphorylation of Sam68 by Src kinase was inhibited when the Src SH3 binding site of Sam68 was mutated or when corresponding peptides were added to in vitro kinase reactions indicating that binding of the Src SH3 domain to a specific site near the amino-terminus of Sam68 (including residues 38 - 45: PPLPHRSR) facilitates phosphorylation of Sam68 by the Src kinase domain. Sam68-based proline peptides had no effect on the phosphorylation of another in vitro substrate of Src, enolase. These results suggest that Src effectively mounts Sam68 through its SH3 domain, possibly as a mechanism to position the kinase domain close to substrate tyrosine residues in the carboxyl-half of the protein.
10468606	A physical complex of the Fanconi anemia proteins FANCG/XRCC9 and FANCA.	Fanconi anemia (FA) is a recessively inherited disease characterized at the cellular level by spontaneous chromosomal instability and specific hypersensitivity to cross-linking agents. FA is genetically heterogeneous, comprising at least eight complementation groups (A-H). We report that the protein encoded by the gene mutated in complementation group G (FANCG) localizes to the cytoplasm and nucleus of the cell and assembles in a molecular complex with the FANCA protein, both in vivo and in vitro. Endogenous FANCA/FANCG complex was detected in both non-FA cells and in FA cells from groups D and E. By contrast, no complex was detected in specific cell lines belonging to groups A and G, whereas reduced levels were found in cells from groups B, C, F, and H. Wild-type levels of FANCA/FANCG complex were restored upon correction of the cellular phenotype by transfection or cell fusion experiments, suggesting that this complex is of functional significance in the FA pathway. These results indicate that the cellular FA phenotype can be connected to three biochemical subtypes based on the levels of FANCA/FANCG complex. Disruption of the complex may provide an experimental strategy for chemosensitization of neoplastic cells.
10477718	CCR5 binds multiple CC-chemokines: MCP-3 acts as a natural antagonist.	CCR5 was first characterized as a receptor for MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, and RANTES, and was rapidly shown to be the main coreceptor for M-tropic human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 strains and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). Chemokines constitute a rapidly growing family of proteins and receptor-chemokine interactions are known to be promiscuous and redundant. We have therefore tested whether other CC-chemokines could bind to and activate CCR5. All CC-chemokines currently available were tested for their ability to compete with [(125)I]-MIP-1beta binding on a stable cell line expressing recombinant CCR5, and/or to induce a functional response in these cells. We found that in addition to MIP-1beta, MIP-1alpha, and RANTES, five other CC-chemokines could compete for [(125)I]-MIP-1beta binding: MCP-2, MCP-3, MCP-4, MCP-1, and eotaxin binding was characterized by IC(50) values of 0.22, 2.14, 5.89, 29.9, and 21.7 nmol/L, respectively. Among these ligands, MCP-3 had the remarkable property of binding CCR5 with high affinity without eliciting a functional response, MCP-3 could also inhibit the activation of CCR5 by MIP-1beta and may therefore be considered as a natural antagonist for CCR5. It was unable to induce significant endocytosis of the receptor. Chemokines that could compete with high affinity for MIP-1beta binding could also compete for monomeric gp120 binding, although with variable potencies; maximal gp120 binding inhibition was 80% for MCP-2, but only 30% for MIP-1beta. MCP-3 could compete efficiently for gp120 binding but was, however, found to be a weak inhibitor of HIV infection, probably as a consequence of its inability to downregulate the receptor.
10477752	H-Ras activation promotes cytoplasmic accumulation and phosphoinositide 3-OH kinase association of beta-catenin in epidermal keratinocytes.	The mechanisms underlying downregulation of the cadherin/catenin complexes and beta-catenin signaling during tumor progression are not fully understood. We have analyzed the effect of oncogenic H-Ras on E-cadherin/catenin complex formation/stabilization and beta-catenin distribution in epidermal keratinocytes. Microinjection or stable expression of V12Ras into keratinocytes promotes the loss of E-cadherin and alpha-catenin and relocalization of beta-catenin to the cytoplasm and nucleus. Moreover, these effects are dependent on PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-OH kinase) activity. Interestingly, a strong association of p85alpha and p110alpha subunits of PI3K with beta-catenin is induced in V12Ras-expressing keratinocytes, and in vitro binding assays show a direct interaction between beta-catenin and p85alpha. Overexpression of either V12Ras or constitutively active p110alpha induces metabolic stabilization of beta-catenin and promotes its accumulation in cytoplasmic and nuclear pools. In addition, the interaction of beta-catenin with the adenomatous polyposis coli protein is blocked in V12Ras and p110alpha transformants though no changes in glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta activity could be detected. Nevertheless, in V12Ras transformants the in vivo phosphorylation of beta-catenin in Ser residues is strongly decreased. These results indicate that H-Ras activation induces the relocalization and cytoplasmic stabilization of beta-catenin by a mechanism involving its interaction with PI3K.
10479680	Neuronal interleukin-16 (NIL-16): a dual function PDZ domain protein.	Interleukin (IL)-16 is a proinflammatory cytokine that has attracted widespread attention because of its ability to block HIV replication. We describe the identification and characterization of a large neuronal IL-16 precursor, NIL-16. The N-terminal half of NIL-16 constitutes a novel PDZ domain protein sequence, whereas the C terminus is identical with splenocyte-derived mouse pro-IL-16. IL-16 has been characterized only in the immune system, and the identification of NIL-16 marks a previously unsuspected connection between the immune and the nervous systems. NIL-16 is a cytosolic protein that is detected only in neurons of the cerebellum and the hippocampus. The N-terminal portion of NIL-16 interacts selectively with a variety of neuronal ion channels, which is similar to the function of many other PDZ domain proteins that serve as intracellular scaffolding proteins. Among the NIL-16-interacting proteins is the class C alpha1 subunit of a mouse brain calcium channel (mbC alpha1). The C terminus of NIL-16 can be processed by caspase-3, resulting in the release of secreted IL-16. Furthermore, in cultured cerebellar granule neurons undergoing apoptosis, NIL-16 proteolysis parallels caspase-3 activation. Cerebellar granule neurons express the IL-16 receptor CD4. Exposure of these cells to IL-16 induces expression of the immediate-early gene, c-fos, via a signaling pathway that involves tyrosine phosphorylation. This suggests that IL-16 provides an autocrine function in the brain. Therefore, we hypothesize that NIL-16 is a dual function protein in the nervous system that serves as a secreted signaling molecule as well as a scaffolding protein.
10486249	Direct interaction of p21 cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor with the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein.	The p21CKI forms a physical complex with the retinoblastoma protein (pRb) both in vitro and in vivo. The A/B pocket region of pRb and the N-terminal region of p21 were indispensable for this interaction. Among p21 family members, p57, but not p27, associated with pRb. Overexpression of cyclin D1, Cdk4, and E2F1 in the cells expressing pRb and p21 did not perturb the interaction between p21 and pRb. Coexpression of p21 in cells expressing pRb, cyclin D1, and Cdk4 prevented pRb hyperphosphorylation by cyclin D1/Cdk4. On the other hand, hyperphosphorylation of pRb by an excess amount of cyclin/Cdk disrupted pRb/p21 complex formation in vitro. These findings suggest that pRb may be dynamically regulated by the relative binding and activities of p21 and Cdks.
10486928	Diva vaccines that reduce virus transmission.	This brief review deals with the effect of diva (Differentiating Infected from VAccinated individuals) vaccines (also termed marker vaccines) on transmission of herpesviruses and pestiviruses in swine and cattle. Pseudorabies and bovine herpesvirus 1 diva vaccines have been demonstrated to reduce transmission of wild-type virus in populations of pigs and cattle in the laboratory as well as in the field. A subunit diva vaccine based on the immunodominant E2 protein of classical swine fever virus that is expressed in the baculovirus system may reduce transmission of wild-type virus among pigs and also transmission from mother to foetuses. A similar diva vaccine against bovine virus diarrhoea infections protected sheep against transplacental transmission of antigenically homologous wild-type virus. Diva vaccines along with their companion diagnostic tests can play a role in control of infections, ultimately leading to eradication of viruses.
10487753	Identification of XDRP1; a Xenopus protein related to yeast Dsk2p binds to the N-terminus of cyclin A and inhibits its degradation.	Using the N-terminus of cyclin A1 in a two-hybrid screen as a bait, we identified a Xenopus protein, XDRP1, that contains a ubiquitin-like domain in its N-terminus and shows significant homology in its C-terminal 50 residues to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Dsk2 and Schizosaccharomyces pombe dph1. XDRP1 is a nuclear phosphoprotein in Xenopus cells, and its phosphorylation is mediated by cyclin A-dependent kinase. XDRP1 binds to both embryonic and somatic forms of cyclin A (A1 and A2) in Xenopus cells, but not to B-type cyclins. The N-terminal ubiquitin-like domain of XDRP1, but not the C-terminal Dsk2-like domain, is required for interaction with cyclin A. XDRP1 requires residues 130-160 of cyclin A1 for efficient binding, which do not include the destruction box of cyclin A. The addition of bacterially expressed XDRP1 protein to frog egg extract inhibited the Ca(2+)-induced degradation of cyclin A, but not that of cyclin B. The injection of XDRP1 protein into fertilized Xenopus eggs blocked embryonic cell division.
10487758	The E6 protein of human papillomavirus type 16 binds to and inhibits co-activation by CBP and p300.	The co-activators CBP and p300 are important for normal cell differentiation and cell cycle progression and are the targets for viral proteins that dysregulate these cellular processes. We show here that the E6 protein from the oncogenic human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) binds to three regions (C/H1, C/H3 and the C-terminus) of both CBP and p300. The interaction of E6 with CBP/p300 was direct and independent of proteins known to bind the co-activators, such as p53. The E6 protein from low-risk HPV type 6 did not interact with C/H3 or the C-terminus but associated with the C/H1 domain at 50% of the level of HPV-16. HPV-16 E6 inhibited the intrinsic transcriptional activity of CBP/p300 and decreased the ability of p300 to activate p53- and NF-kappaB-responsive promoter elements. Interestingly, some mutations in HPV-16 E6 abrogated C/H3-E6 interactions, but did not alter the ability of E6 to associate with the C/H1 domain, suggesting that these modified proteins could be used to delineate the functional significance of the C/H1 and C/H3 domains of CBP/p300.
10487761	HDAC4 deacetylase associates with and represses the MEF2 transcription factor.	The acetylation state of histones can influence transcription. Acetylation, carried out by acetyltransferases such as CBP/p300 and P/CAF, is commonly associated with transcriptional stimulation, whereas deacetylation, mediated by the three known human deacetylases HDAC1, 2 and 3, causes transcriptional repression. The known human deacetylases represent a single family and are homologues of the yeast RPD3 deacetylase. Here we identify and characterize HDAC4, a representative of a new human histone deacetylase family, which is homologous to the yeast HDA1 deacetylase. We show that HDAC4, unlike other deacetylases, shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm in a process involving active nuclear export. In the nucleus, HDAC4 associates with the myocyte enhancer factor MEF2A. Binding of HDAC4 to MEF2A results in the repression of MEF2A transcriptional activation, a function that requires the deacetylase domain of HDAC4. These results identify MEF2A as a nuclear target for HDAC4-mediated repression and suggests that compartmentalization may be a novel mechanism for controlling the nuclear activity of this new family of deacetylases.
10488080	PSD-95 assembles a ternary complex with the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor and a bivalent neuronal NO synthase PDZ domain.	Nitric oxide (NO) biosynthesis in cerebellum is preferentially activated by calcium influx through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors, suggesting that there is a specific link between these receptors and neuronal NO synthase (nNOS). Here, we find that PSD-95 assembles a postsynaptic protein complex containing nNOS and NMDA receptors. Formation of this complex is mediated by the PDZ domains of PSD-95, which bind to the COOH termini of specific NMDA receptor subunits. In contrast, nNOS is recruited to this complex by a novel PDZ-PDZ interaction in which PSD-95 recognizes an internal motif adjacent to the consensus nNOS PDZ domain. This internal motif is a structured "pseudo-peptide" extension of the nNOS PDZ that interacts with the peptide-binding pocket of PSD-95 PDZ2. This asymmetric interaction leaves the peptide-binding pocket of the nNOS PDZ domain available to interact with additional COOH-terminal PDZ ligands. Accordingly, we find that the nNOS PDZ domain can bind PSD-95 PDZ2 and a COOH-terminal peptide simultaneously. This bivalent nature of the nNOS PDZ domain further expands the scope for assembly of protein networks by PDZ domains.
10488109	Axin directly interacts with plakoglobin and regulates its stability.	Plakoglobin is homologous to beta-catenin. Axin, a Wnt signal negative regulator, enhances glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta-dependent phosphorylation of beta-catenin and stimulates the degradation of beta-catenin. Therefore, we examined the effect of Axin on plakoglobin stability. Axin formed a complex with plakoglobin in COS cells and SW480 cells. Axin directly bound to plakoglobin, and this binding was inhibited by beta-catenin. Axin promoted GSK-3beta-dependent phosphorylation of plakoglobin. Furthermore, overexpression of Axin down-regulated the level of plakoglobin in SW480 cells. These results suggest that Axin regulates the stability of plakoglobin by enhancing its phosphorylation by GSK-3beta and that Axin may act on beta-catenin and plakoglobin in similar manners.
10488147	Molecular cloning of a novel human CC chemokine (Eotaxin-3) that is a functional ligand of CC chemokine receptor 3.	Previously, we mapped the novel CC chemokine myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor 2 (MPIF-2)/eotaxin-2 to chromosome 7q11.23 (Nomiyama, H., Osborne, L. R., Imai, T., Kusuda, J., Miura, R., Tsui, L.-C., and Yoshie, O. (1998) Genomics 49, 339-340). Since chemokine genes tend to be clustered, unknown chemokines may be present in the vicinity of those mapped to new chromosomal loci. Prompted by this hypothesis, we analyzed the genomic region containing the gene for MPIF-2/eotaxin-2 (SCYA24) and have identified a novel CC chemokine termed eotaxin-3. The genes for MPIF-2/eotaxin-2 (SCYA24) and eotaxin-3 (SCYA26) are localized within a region of approximately 40 kilobases. By Northern blot analysis, eotaxin-3 mRNA was constitutively expressed in the heart and ovary. We have generated recombinant eotaxin-3 in a baculovirus expression system. Eotaxin-3 induced transient calcium mobilization specifically in CC chemokine receptor 3 (CCR3)-expressing L1.2 cells with an EC(50) of 3 nM. Eotaxin-3 competed the binding of (125)I-eotaxin to CCR3-expressing L1.2 cells with an IC(50) of 13 nM. Eotaxin-3 was chemotactic for normal peripheral blood eosinophils and basophils at high concentrations. Collectively, eotaxin-3 is yet another functional ligand for CCR3. The potency of eotaxin-3 as a CCR3 ligand seems, however, to be approximately 10-fold less than that of eotaxin. Identification of eotaxin-3 will further promote our understanding of the control of eosinophil trafficking and other CCR3-mediated biological phenomena. The strategy used in this study may also be applicable to identification of other unknown chemokine genes.
10488153	Interaction of hHR23 with S5a. The ubiquitin-like domain of hHR23 mediates interaction with S5a subunit of 26 S proteasome.	hHR23B is one of two human homologs of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae nucleotide excision repair (NER) gene product RAD23 and a component of a protein complex that specifically complements the NER defect of xeroderma pigmentosum group C (XP-C) cell extracts in vitro. Although a small proportion of hHR23B is tightly complexed with the XP-C responsible gene product, XPC protein, a vast majority exists as an XPC-free form, indicating that hHR23B has additional functions other than NER in vivo. Here we demonstrate that the human NER factor hHR23B as well as another human homolog of RAD23, hHR23A, interact specifically with S5a, a subunit of the human 26 S proteasome using the yeast two-hybrid system. Furthermore, hHR23 proteins were detected with S5a at the position where 26 S proteasome sediments in glycerol gradient centrifugation of HeLa S100 extracts. Intriguingly, hHR23B showed the inhibitory effect on the degradation of (125)I-lysozyme in the rabbit reticulocyte lysate. hHR23 proteins thus appear to associate with 26 S proteasome in vivo. From co-precipitation experiments using several series of deletion mutants, we defined the domains in hHR23B and S5a that mediate this interaction. From these results, we propose that part of hHR23 proteins are involved in the proteolytic pathway in cells.
10490105	The Wilms tumor suppressor WT1 encodes a transcriptional activator of amphiregulin.	WT1 encodes a zinc finger transcription factor implicated in kidney differentiation and tumorigenesis. In reporter assays, WT1 represses transcription from GC- and TC-rich promoters, but its physiological targets remain uncertain. We used hybridization to high-density oligonucleotide arrays to search for native genes whose expression is altered following inducible expression of WT1. The major target of WT1 was amphiregulin, a member of the epidermal growth factor family. The WT1(-KTS) isoform binds directly to the amphiregulin promoter, resulting in potent transcriptional activation. The in vivo expression profile of amphiregulin during fetal kidney development mirrors the highly specific pattern of WT1 itself, and recombinant Amphiregulin stimulates epithelial branching in organ cultures of embryonic mouse kidney. These observations suggest a model for WT1 as a transcriptional regulator during kidney differentiation.
10490850	Association of RACK1 and PKCbeta with the common beta-chain of the IL-5/IL-3/GM-CSF receptor.	Granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), interleukin-3 (IL-3) and interleukin-5 (IL-5 belong to a family of cytokines that regulate proliferation, differentiation and function of haematopoietic cells. Their receptor consists of a ligand specific alpha-chain and a signal transducing beta-chain (betac). While, the role of phosphotyrosine residues in the betac as mediators of downstream signalling cascades has been established, little is known about non-phosphotyrosine mediated events. To identify proteins interacting with betac, we screened a yeast two-hybrid library with the intracellular domain of betac. We found that RACK1, a molecule associating with activated PKC, PLCgamma and Src kinases, associated with the membrane proximal region of betac in both yeast two-hybrid, immunoprecipitation and GST-pull-down assays. The association of RACK1 was constitutive, demonstrating no alteration upon cellular stimulation. Furthermore, upon stimulation of cells with IL-5 or PMA, a complex of betac and PKCbeta was found. Together, these findings suggest a novel role for RACK1 as a possible adapter molecule associating with the intracellular domain of cytokine receptors.
10497212	Bcl3, an IkappaB protein, stimulates activating protein-1 transactivation and cellular proliferation.	Bcl3, an IkappaB protein, was originally isolated as a putative proto-oncogene in a subset of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias. Bcl3 was subsequently shown to associate tightly with and transactivate the NFkappaB p50 or p52 homodimer. Herein, we show that Bcl3 stimulates the activating protein-1 (AP-1) transactivation, either alone or in conjunction with transcription integrators steroid receptor coactivator-1 and CREB-binding protein/p300. The C-terminal 158 residues of Bcl3 exhibited an autonomous transactivation function and interacted with specific subregions of the AP-1 components c-Jun and c-Fos, CREB-binding protein/p300, and steroid receptor coactivator-1, as demonstrated by the yeast and mammalian two-hybrid tests as well as glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays. In addition, anti-HA antibody co-precipitated c-Jun from HeLa cells co-expressing c-Jun and HA-tagged Bcl3, consistent with the idea that Bcl3 directly associates with AP-1 in vivo. Furthermore, microinjection of Bcl3 expression vector into Rat-1 fibroblast cells significantly enhanced DNA synthesis and expression of c-jun, one of the cellular target genes of AP-1. These results suggest that Bcl3 may directly participate in the tumorigenesis processes as a novel transcription coactivator of the mitogenic transcription factor AP-1 in vivo.
10497213	Characterization of the interaction between the Wilson and Menkes disease proteins and the cytoplasmic copper chaperone, HAH1p.	Wilson disease (WD) and Menkes disease (MNK) are inherited disorders of copper metabolism. The genes that mutate to give rise to these disorders encode highly homologous copper transporting ATPases. We use yeast and mammalian two-hybrid systems, along with an in vitro assay to demonstrate a specific, copper-dependent interaction between the six metal-binding domains of the WD and MNK ATPases and the cytoplasmic copper chaperone HAH1. We demonstrate that several metal-binding domains interact independently or in combination with HAH1p, although notably domains five and six of WDp do not. Alteration of either the Met or Thr residue of the HAH1p MTCXXC motif has no observable effect on the copper-dependent interaction, whereas alteration of either of the two Cys residues abolishes the interaction. Mutation of any one of the HAH1p C-terminal Lys residues (Lys(56), Lys(57), or Lys(60)) to Gly does not affect the interaction, although deletion of the 15 C-terminal residues abolishes the interaction. We show that apo-HAH1p can bind in vitro to copper-loaded WDp, suggesting reversibility of copper transfer from HAH1p to WD/MNKp. The in vitro HAH1/WDp interaction is metalospecific; HAH1 preincubated with Cu(2+) or Hg(+) but not with Zn(2+), Cd(2+), Co(2+), Ni(3+), Fe(3+), or Cr(3+) interacted with WDp. Finally, we model the protein-protein interaction and present a theoretical representation of the HAH1p.Cu.WD/MNKp complex.
10498628	TECK, an efficacious chemoattractant for human thymocytes, uses GPR-9-6/CCR9 as a specific receptor.	Chemokines regulate leukocytes trafficking in normal and inflammation conditions. Thymus-seeding progenitors are made in bone marrow and migrate to the thymus where they undergo their maturation to antigen-specific T cells. Immature T cells are in thymic cortex, while mature thymocytes are in medulla. Chemokines may be important for homing of thymus-seeding progenitors, and/or differential thymocyte localization in thymus. Here we report that GPR-9-6, now called CC chemokine receptor 9 (CCR9), is a receptor for thymus-expressed chemokine, TECK. Among a panel of chemokines tested, TECK specifically induced calcium flux in CCR9-expressing cell lines. We also showed that TECK efficaciously induced chemotaxis of immature CD4(+)CD8(+) double-positive, and mature CD4(+) and CD8(+) single-positive human thymocytes. Our data suggest that TECK/CCR9 interaction may play a pivotal role in T-cell migration in the thymus.
10498661	Hepatitis C virus core protein binds to apolipoprotein AII and its secretion is modulated by fibrates.	Several lines of evidence suggest that hepatitis C virus (HCV) core protein may modulate cellular transduction signals and alter lipid metabolism. We have investigated the binding of HCV core protein to cellular proteins by combining 2 yeast hybrid, confocal, and surface plasmon resonance assays. Our results show the direct binding of the viral protein to apolipoprotein AII (apoAII) and map the interaction domain to the C-terminal of HCV core protein. To investigate the biological relevance of the interaction between HCV core and lipid metabolism, we took advantage of the well-established increase in apoAII expression caused by fibrates in HepG2 cells. After fenofibric acid treatment, we show a parallel increase in apoAII and core protein secretion, this effect being abolished by brefeldin A. Our study identifies apoAII as one of the cellular targets for HCV core protein. We also show that the intervention of fenofibric acid in cellular lipid metabolism directly affects the expression pattern of HCV core protein.
10498867	NF-kappaB subunit p65 binds to 53BP2 and inhibits cell death induced by 53BP2.	Nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) is a transcription factor that controls the expression of many cellular and viral genes. The p65 (RelA) subunit plays a critical role as a transcriptional activator and recent observations have highlighted its role in the control of apoptosis. Here we report that 53BP2, a protein previously identified by interaction with wild type p53 and Bcl-2, also binds to p65 in a yeast two-hybrid system. This specific interaction was confirmed by pull-down assay in vitro and by a mammalian two-hybrid assay in vivo. We observed that full-length 53BP2 fused to GFP had a punctate distribution in cytoplasm, predominantly in perinuclear region whereas the N-terminal 53BP2 localized in cytoplasm and C-terminal 53BP2 localized in the nucleus. Furthermore, we found that overexpression of GFP-53BP2 induced apoptosis in transiently transfected cells. Neither the N-terminal nor the C-terminal of 53BP2 fused to GFP induced cell death. Interestingly, co-transfection with a p65 expression plasmid significantly inhibited 53BP2-induced cell death. The previous findings that 53BP2 bound to p53 and Bcl-2 together with our present observations suggest that 53BP2 may play a central role in the regulation of apoptosis and cell growth.
10499589	EPS8 and E3B1 transduce signals from Ras to Rac.	The small guanine nucleotide (GTP)-binding protein Rac regulates mitogen-induced cytoskeletal changes and c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK), and its activity is required for Ras-mediated cell transformation. Epistatic analysis placed Rac as a key downstream target in Ras signalling; however, the biochemical mechanism regulating the cross-talk among these small GTP-binding proteins remains to be elucidated. Eps8 (relative molecular mass 97,000) is a substrate of receptors with tyrosine kinase activity which binds, through its SH3 domain, to a protein designated E3b1/Abi-1. Here we show that Eps8 and E3b1/Abi-1 participate in the transduction of signals from Ras to Rac, by regulating Rac-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activities. We also show that Eps8, E3b1 and Sos-1 form a tri-complex in vivo that exhibits Rac-specific GEF activity in vitro. We propose a model in which Eps8 mediates the transfer of signals between Ras and Rac, by forming a complex with E3b1 and Sos-1.
10500101	The Escherichia coli sigma(E)-dependent extracytoplasmic stress response is controlled by the regulated proteolysis of an anti-sigma factor.	The activity of the stress-responsive sigma factor, sigma(E), is induced by the extracytoplasmic accumulation of misfolded or unfolded protein. The inner membrane protein RseA is the central regulatory molecule in this signal transduction cascade and acts as a sigma(E)-specific anti-sigma factor. Here we show that sigma(E) activity is primarily determined by the ratio of RseA to sigma(E). RseA is rapidly degraded in response to extracytoplasmic stress, leading to an increase in the free pool of sigma(E) and initiation of the stress response. We present evidence that the putative inner membrane serine protease, DegS, is responsible for this regulated degradation of RseA.
10504266	Regulation of neurabin I interaction with protein phosphatase 1 by phosphorylation.	Neurabin I is a brain-specific actin-binding protein. Here we show that neurabin I binds protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) and inhibits PP1 activity. Neurabin I interacted with PP1alpha in an overlay assay, in yeast two-hybrid interaction analysis, and in coprecipitation and co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Neurabin I also copurified with both the alpha and gamma isoforms of PP1. A glutathione S-transferase (GST)-neurabin I fusion protein (residues 318-661) containing the putative PP1 binding domain (residues 456-460) inhibited PP1 activity (K(i) = 2.7 +/- 1.2 nM). This fusion protein was also rapidly phosphorylated in vitro by PKA (K(m) = 6 microM) to a stoichiomtry of 1 mol/mol. The phosphorylated residue was identified as serine 461 by HPLC-MS analysis of a tryptic digest. Phosphorylation of GST-neurabin I (residues 318-661) by PKA significantly reduced its binding to PP1 by overlay and by glutathione-Sepharose coprecipitation assays. A 35-fold decrease in inhibitory potency was also observed using a S461E mutant, which mimics phosphorylation of S461. These findings identify a signaling mechanism involving the regulation of PP1 activity and localization mediated by the cAMP pathway.
10508408	Structural consequences of the B5 histidine --> tyrosine mutation in human insulin characterized by X-ray crystallography and conformational analysis.	The addition of phenols to hexameric insulin solutions produces a particularly stable hexamer, resulting from a rearrangement in which residues B1-B8 change from an extended conformation (T-state) to form an alpha-helix (R-state). The R-state is, in part, stabilized by nonpolar interactions between the phenolic molecule and residue B5 His at the dimer-dimer interface. The B5 His --> Tyr mutant human insulin was constructed to see if the tyrosine side chain would mimic the effect of phenol binding in the hexamer and induce the R-state. In partial support of this hypothesis, the molecule crystallized as a half-helical hexamer (T(3)R(3)) in conditions that conventionally promote the fully nonhelical (T6) form. As expected, in the presence of phenol or resorcinol, the B5 Tyr hexamers adopt the fully helical (R6) conformation. Molecular modeling calculations were performed to investigate the conformational preference of the T-state B5 Tyr side chain in the T(3)R(3) form, this side chain being associated with structural perturbations of the A7-A10 loop in an adjacent hexamer. For an isolated dimer, several different orientations of the side chain were found, which were close in energy and readily interconvertible. In the crystal environment only one of these conformations remains low in energy; this conformation corresponds to that observed in the crystal structure. This suggests that packing constraints around residue B5 Tyr result in the observed structural rearrangements. Thus, rather than promoting the R-state in a manner analogous to phenol, the mutation appears to destabilize the T-state. These studies highlight the role of B5 His in determining hexamer conformation and in mediating crystal packing interactions, properties that are likely be important in vivo.
10508777	Specific inhibition of insect alpha-amylases: yellow meal worm alpha-amylase in complex with the amaranth alpha-amylase inhibitor at 2.0 A resolution.	BACKGROUND: alpha-Amylases constitute a family of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of alpha-D-(1,4)-glucan linkages in starch and related polysaccharides. The Amaranth alpha-amylase inhibitor (AAI) specifically inhibits alpha-amylases from insects, but not from mammalian sources. AAI is the smallest proteinaceous alpha-amylase inhibitor described so far and has no known homologs in the sequence databases. Its mode of inhibition of alpha-amylases was unknown until now. RESULTS: The crystal structure of yellow meal worm alpha-amylase (TMA) in complex with AAI was determined at 2.0 A resolution. The overall fold of AAI, its three-stranded twisted beta sheet and the topology of its disulfide bonds identify it as a knottin-like protein. The inhibitor binds into the active-site groove of TMA, blocking the central four sugar-binding subsites. Residues from two AAI segments target the active-site residues of TMA. A comparison of the TMA-AAI complex with a modeled complex between porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase (PPA) and AAI identified six hydrogen bonds that can be formed only in the TMA-AAI complex. CONCLUSIONS: The binding of AAI to TMA presents a new inhibition mode for alpha-amylases. Due to its unique specificity towards insect alpha-amylases, AAI might represent a valuable tool for protecting crop plants from predatory insects. The close structural homology between AAI and 'knottins' opens new perspectives for the engineering of various novel activities onto the small scaffold of this group of proteins.
10508919	A novel ADP-ribosylation like factor (ARL-6), interacts with the protein-conducting channel SEC61beta subunit.	We report here the isolation of a new member of the ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF)-like family (ARL-6) present in the J2E erythroleukemic cell line, but not its myeloid variants. Consistent with this lineage-restricted expression, ARL-6 mRNA increased with erythropoietin-induced maturation of J2E cells, and decreased with interleukin 6-induced differentiation of M1 monoblastoid cells. In tissues, ARL-6 mRNA was most abundant in brain and kidney. While ARL-6 protein was predominantly cytosolic, its membrane association increased following exposure to GTP-gammaS, like many members of the ARF/ARL family. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, six molecules which interact with ARL-6 were identified including SEC61beta, a subunit of the heterotrimeric protein conducting channel SEC61p. Co-immunoprecipitation of ARL-6 confirmed a stable association between ARL-6 and SEC61beta in COS cells. These results demonstrate that ARL-6, a novel member of the ADP-ribosylation factor-like family, interacts with the SEC61beta subunit.
10510297	Endothelial nitric oxide synthase interactions with G-protein-coupled receptors.	The endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is activated in response to stimulation of endothelial cells by a number of vasoactive substances including, bradykinin (BK), angiotensin II (Ang II), endothelin-1 (ET-1) and ATP. In the present study we have used in vitro activity assays of purified eNOS and in vitro binding assays with glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins to show that the capacity to bind and inhibit eNOS is a common feature of membrane-proximal regions of intracellular domain 4 of the BK B2, the Ang II AT1 and the ET-1 ETB receptors, but not of the ATP P2Y2 receptor. Phosphorylation of serine or tyrosine residues in the eNOS-interacting region of the B2 receptor results in a loss of eNOS inhibition due to a decrease in the binding affinity of the receptor domain for the eNOS enzyme. Furthermore, the B2 receptor is transiently phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in cultured endothelial cells in response to BK stimulation. Phosphorylation occurs during the time in which eNOS transiently dissociates from the receptor accompanied by a transient increase in nitric oxide production. Taken together, these data support the hypotheses that eNOS is regulated in endothelial cells by reversible and inhibitory interactions with G-protein-coupled receptors and that these interactions can be modulated by receptor phosphorylation.
10514494	Direct interaction of the trans-Golgi network membrane protein, TGN38, with the F-actin binding protein, neurabin.	TGN38 is a type I integral membrane protein that constitutively cycles between the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and plasma membrane. The cytosolic domain of TGN38 interacts with AP2 clathrin adaptor complexes via the tyrosine-containing motif (-SDYQRL-) to direct internalization from the plasma membrane. This motif has previously been shown to direct both internalization and subsequent TGN targeting of TGN38. We have used the cytosolic domain of TGN38 in a two-hybrid screen, and we have identified the brain-specific F-actin binding protein neurabin-I as a TGN38-binding protein. We demonstrate a direct interaction between TGN38 and the ubiquitous homologue of neurabin-I, neurabin-II (also called spinophilin). We have used a combination of yeast two-hybrid and in vitro protein interaction assays to show that this interaction is dependent on the serine (but not tyrosine) residue of the known TGN38 trafficking motif. We show that TGN38 interacts with the coiled coil region of neurabin in vitro and binds preferentially with the dimeric form of neurabin. TGN38 and neurabin also interact in vivo as demonstrated by coimmunoprecipitation from stably transfected PC12 cells. These data suggest that neurabin provides a direct physical link between TGN38-containing membranes and the actin cytoskeleton.
10514505	CrkL mediates Ras-dependent activation of the Raf/ERK pathway through the guanine nucleotide exchange factor C3G in hematopoietic cells stimulated with erythropoietin or interleukin-3.	CrkL is an SH2 and SH3 domain-containing adaptor protein implicated in pathogenesis of chronic myelogenous leukemia. Here, we demonstrate that overexpression of CrkL enhances the erythropoietin (Epo)- or interleukin (IL)-3-induced activation of Elk-1 and the c-fos gene promoter activity in 32D/EpoR-Wt cells. Moreover, the Epo-induced activation of ERK1 and ERK2 was augmented and prolonged in cells inducibly overexpressing CrkL. A moderate increase in Epo-induced activation of JNK was also observed in cells overexpressing CrkL. Overexpression of C3G enhanced the Elk-1 activation synergistically with CrkL, while a C3G mutant lacking the guanine nucleotide exchange domain showed an inhibitory effect. Studies using a dominant negative Ha-Ras mutant demonstrated that the Elk-1 and ERK2 activation enhanced by CrkL and C3G was dependent on Ras. Consistent with this, the Epo-induced activation of Ras was augmented in cells inducibly overexpressing CrkL. Most importantly, a CrkL mutant defective in the SH2 or N-terminal SH3 domain showed an inhibitory effect on the Epo-induced activation of ERK2. These data indicate that the CrkL-C3G complex plays a role in Epo- or IL-3-induced, Ras-dependent activation of the Raf/ERK pathway leading to the activation of Elk-1 and the c-fos gene transcription.
10514511	TRAF family proteins interact with the common neurotrophin receptor and modulate apoptosis induction.	The common neurotrophin receptor, p75(NTR), has been shown to signal in the absence of Trk tyrosine kinase receptors, including induction of neural apoptosis and activation of NF-kappaB. However, the mechanisms by which p75(NTR) initiates these intracellular signal transduction pathways are unknown. Here we report interactions between p75(NTR) and the six members of TRAF (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors) family proteins. The binding of different TRAF proteins to p75(NTR) was mapped to distinct regions in p75(NTR). Furthermore, TRAF4 interacted with dimeric p75(NTR), whereas TRAF2 interacted preferentially with monomeric p75(NTR). TRAF2-p75(NTR), TRAF4-p75(NTR), and TRAF6-p75(NTR) interactions modulated p75(NTR)-induced cell death and NF-kappaB activation with contrasting effects. Coexpression of TRAF2 with p75(NTR) enhanced cell death, whereas coexpression of TRAF6 was cytoprotective. Furthermore, overexpression of TRAF4 abrogated the ability of dimerization to prevent the induction of apoptosis normally mediated by monomeric p75(NTR). TRAF4 also inhibited the NF-kappaB response, whereas TRAF2 and TRAF6 enhanced p75(NTR)-induced NF-kappaB activation. These results demonstrate that TRAF family proteins interact with p75(NTR) and differentially modulate its NF-kappaB activation and cell death induction.
10515947	Genetic analysis of nif regulatory genes by utilizing the yeast two-hybrid system detected formation of a NifL-NifA complex that is implicated in regulated expression of nif genes.	In diazotrophic organisms, nitrogenase synthesis and activity are tightly regulated. Two genes, nifL and nifA, are implicated as playing a major role in this regulation. NifA is a transcriptional activator, and its activity is inhibited by NifL in response to availability of excess fixed nitrogen and high O(2) tension. It was postulated that NifL binds to NifA to inhibit NifA-mediated transcriptional activation of nif genes. Mutational analysis combined with transcriptional activation studies clearly is in agreement with the proposal that NifL interacts with NifA. However, several attempts to identify NifA-NifL interactions by using methods such as coimmunoprecipitations and chemical cross-linking experiments failed to detect direct interactions between these proteins. Here we have taken a genetic approach, the use of a yeast two-hybrid protein-protein interaction assay system, to investigate NifL interaction with NifA. A DNA fragment corresponding to the kinase-like domain of nifL was PCR amplified and was used to generate translation fusions with the DNA binding domain and the DNA activation domain of the yeast transcriptional activator GAL4 in yeast two-hybrid vectors. Similarly, a DNA fragment corresponding to the catalytic domain of nifA was PCR amplified and used to generate translation fusions with the DNA-binding domain and the DNA-activation domain of GAL4 in yeast two-hybrid vectors. After introducing appropriate plasmid combinations in yeast cells, the existance of direct interaction between NifA and NifL was analyzed with the MATCHMAKER yeast two-hybrid system by testing for the expression of lacZ and his3 genes. These analyses showed that the kinase-like domain of NifL directly interacts with the catalytic domain of NifA.
10518219	The FHA domain is a modular phosphopeptide recognition motif.	FHA domains are conserved sequences of 65-100 amino acid residues found principally within eukaryotic nuclear proteins, but which also exist in certain prokaryotes. The FHA domain is thought to mediate protein-protein interactions, but its mode of action has yet to be elucidated. Here, we show that the two highly divergent FHA domains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad53p, a protein kinase involved in cell cycle checkpoint control, possess phosphopeptide-binding specificity. We also demonstrate that other FHA domains bind peptides in a phospho-dependent manner. These findings indicate that the FHA domain is a phospho-specific protein-protein interaction motif and have important implications for mechanisms of intracellular signaling in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
10518533	Interactions of G(h)/transglutaminase with phospholipase Cdelta1 and with GTP.	The inositol phosphate hydrolyzing activity of human phospholipase Cdelta1 (PLCdelta1) is markedly inhibited when the enzyme is coexpressed with the human heart G(h)/transglutaminase (TG) in human embryonic kidney cells. Because the cotransfection does not affect the amount of PLCdelta1 in the cells, the depression of phospholipase activity probably is a result of a direct interaction between the two proteins. An ELISA procedure was employed to document the associations of purified TG preparations from a variety of tissues (human red cells, rabbit lens, guinea pig liver) with PLCdelta1. Nucleotides (GTP > GDP > ATP > GMP = ADP, in order of decreasing efficiency) interfered with the formation of the PLCdelta1:TG complex. A conformational change in the TG partner, occurring with nucleotide binding, is thought to be responsible for dissociating the two proteins. The structural rearrangement produces a remarkable shift in the anodic mobility of TG in electrophoresis: TG(slow) + GTP -->/<-- [TG:GTP](fast). Altogether, our findings indicate that GTP controls PLCdelta1 activity by releasing this protein from an inhibitory association with G(h)/transglutaminase.
10518542	BRCA1-associated growth arrest is RB-dependent.	BRCA1 is a susceptibility gene for breast and ovarian cancer with growth-inhibitory activity for which the mechanism of action remains unclear. When introduced into cells, BRCA1 inhibits growth of some but not all cell lines. In an attempt to uncover the mechanism of growth suppression by BRCA1, we examined a panel of cell lines for their ability to reduce colony outgrowth in response to BRCA1 overexpression. Of all variables tested, only those cells with wild-type pRb were sensitive to BRCA1-induced growth suppression. In cells with an intact rb gene, inactivation of pRb by HPV E7 abrogates the growth arrest imposed by BRCA1. In accordance with these observations, we found that BRCA1 could not suppress BrdUrd uptake in primary fibroblasts from rb-/- mice and exhibited an intermediate ability to inhibit DNA synthesis in rb+/- as compared with rb+/+ cells. We further found that the BRCA1 protein complexes with the hypophosphorylated form of pRb. This binding is localized to amino acids 304-394 of BRCA1 protein and requires the ABC domain of pRb. In-frame deletion of BRCA1 fragment involved in interaction with pRb completely abolished the growth-suppressive property of BRCA1. Although it has been reported that BRCA1 interacts with p53, we find the p53 status did not affect the ability of BRCA1 to suppress colony formation. Our data suggest that the growth suppressor function of BRCA1 depends, at least in part, on Rb.
10521409	IkappaB kinases phosphorylate NF-kappaB p65 subunit on serine 536 in the transactivation domain.	Recent investigations have elucidated the cytokine-induced NF-kappaB activation pathway. IkappaB kinase (IKK) phosphorylates inhibitors of NF-kappaB (IkappaBs). The phosphorylation targets them for rapid degradation through a ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, allowing the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB. We have examined the possibility that IKK can phosphorylate the p65 NF-kappaB subunit as well as IkappaB in the cytokine-induced NF-kappaB activation. In the cytoplasm of HeLa cells, the p65 subunit was rapidly phosphorylated in response to TNF-alpha in a time dependent manner similar to IkappaB phosphorylation. In vitro phosphorylation with GST-fused p65 showed that a p65 phosphorylating activity was present in the cytoplasmic fraction and the target residue was Ser-536 in the carboxyl-terminal transactivation domain. The endogenous IKK complex, overexpressed IKKs, and recombinant IKKbeta efficiently phosphorylated the same Ser residue of p65 in vitro. The major phosphorylation site in vivo was also Ser-536. Furthermore, activation of IKKs by NF-kappaB-inducing kinase induced phosphorylation of p65 in vivo. Our finding, together with previous observations, suggests dual roles for IKK complex in the regulation of NF-kappaB.IkappaB complex.
10521466	Presenilin 1 protein directly interacts with Bcl-2.	Presenilin proteins are involved in familial Alzheimer's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by massive death of neurons. We describe a direct interaction between presenilin 1 (PS1) and Bcl-2, a key factor in the regulation of apoptosis, by yeast two-hybrid interaction system, by co-immunoprecipitation, and by cross-linking experiments. Our data show that PS1 and Bcl-2 assemble into a macromolecular complex, and that they are released from this complex in response to an apoptotic stimulus induced by staurosporine. The results support the idea of cross-talk between these two proteins during apoptosis.
10523662	Pta1, a component of yeast CF II, is required for both cleavage and poly(A) addition of mRNA precursor.	CF II, a factor required for cleavage of the 3' ends of mRNA precursor in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, has been shown to contain four polypeptides. The three largest subunits, Cft1/Yhh1, Cft2/Ydh1, and Brr5/Ysh1, are homologs of the three largest subunits of mammalian cleavage-polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF), an activity needed for both cleavage and poly(A) addition. In this report, we show by protein sequencing and immunoreactivity that the fourth subunit of CF II is Pta1, an essential 90-kDa protein originally implicated in tRNA splicing. Yth1, the yeast homolog of the CPSF 30-kDa subunit, is not detected in this complex. Extracts prepared from pta1 mutant strains are impaired in the cleavage and the poly(A) addition of both GAL7 and CYC1 substrates and exhibit little processing activity even after prolonged incubation. However, activity is efficiently rescued by the addition of purified CF II to the defective extracts. Extract from a strain with a mutation in the CF IA subunit Rna14 also restored processing, but extract from a brr5-1 strain did not. The amounts of Pta1 and other CF II subunits are reduced in pta1 strains, suggesting that levels of the subunits may be coordinately regulated. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments indicate that the CF II in extract can be found in a stable complex containing Pap1, CF II, and the Fip1 and Yth1 subunits of polyadenylation factor I. While purified CF II does not appear to retain the association with these other factors, this larger complex may be the form recruited onto pre-mRNA in vivo. The involvement of Pta1 in both steps of mRNA 3'-end formation supports the conclusion that CF II is the functional homolog of CPSF.
10523825	Oncogenic human papillomavirus E6 proteins target the discs large tumour suppressor for proteasome-mediated degradation.	Previous studies have shown that the oncogenic HPV E6 proteins form a complex with the human homologue of the Drosophila tumour suppressor protein, discs large (Dlg). This is mediated by the carboxy terminus of the E6 proteins and involves recognition of at least one PDZ domain of Dlg. This region of E6 is not conserved amongst E6 proteins from the low risk papillomavirus types and, hence, binding of HPV E6 proteins to Dlg correlates with the oncogenic potential of these viruses. We have performed studies to investigate the consequences of the interaction between E6 and Dlg. Mutational analysis of both the HPV18 E6 and Dlg proteins has further defined the regions of E6 and Dlg necessary for complex formation. Strikingly, co-expression of wild type HPV18 E6 with Dlg in vitro or in vivo results in a dramatic decrease in the amount of Dlg protein, whereas mutants of E6 which fail to complex with Dlg have minimal effect on Dlg protein levels. The oncogenic HPV16 E6 also decreased the Dlg levels, but this was not observed with the low risk HPV11 E6 protein. Moreover, a region within the first 544 amino acids of Dlg containing the three PDZ domains confers susceptibility to E6 mediated degradation. Finally, treatment of cells with a proteasome inhibitor overrides the capacity of E6 to degrade Dlg. These results demonstrate that Dlg is targeted by high risk HPV E6 proteins for proteasome mediated degradation.
10523853	The human papilloma virus (HPV)-18 E6 oncoprotein physically associates with Tyk2 and impairs Jak-STAT activation by interferon-alpha.	We have examined the effects of human papilloma virus (HPV) E6 proteins on interferon (IFN) signaling. Here we show that expression of the 'malignant' HPV-18 E6 in human HT1080 cells results in inhibition of Jak-STAT activation in response to IFN-alpha but not IFN-gamma. This inhibitory effect is not shared by the 'benign' HPV-11 E6. The DNA-binding and transactivation capacities of the transcription factor ISGF3 are diminished in cells expressing HPV-18 E6 after IFN-alpha treatment as a result of decreased tyrosine phosphorylation of Tyk2, STAT2 and STAT1. However, HPV-18 E6 does not affect the induction of tyrosine phosphorylation and DNA-binding of STAT1 by IFN-gamma. In addition, HPV E6 proteins physically interact with Tyk2. This interaction takes place preferably with HPV-18 E6 and to a lesser extent with HPV-11 E6. The E6/Tyk2 interaction requires the JH6-JH7 domains of Tyk2, which are important for Tyk2 binding to the cytoplasmic portion of IFN-alpha receptor 1 (IFNAR1). These findings demonstrate an inhibitory role of HPV-18 E6 in the IFN-alpha-induced Jak-STAT pathway, which may be explained, at least in part, by the ability of E6 to interact with and impair Tyk2 activation.
10524633	14-3-3Sigma is required to prevent mitotic catastrophe after DNA damage.	14-3-3Sigma is a member of a family of proteins that regulate cellular activity by binding and sequestering phosphorylated proteins. It has been suggested that 14-3-3sigma promotes pre-mitotic cell-cycle arrest following DNA damage, and that its expression can be controlled by the p53 tumour suppressor gene. Here we describe an improved approach to the generation of human somatic-cell knockouts, which we have used to generate human colorectal cancer cells in which both 14-3-3sigma alleles are inactivated. After DNA damage, these cells initially arrested in the G2 phase of the cell cycle, but, unlike cells containing 14-3-3sigma, the 14-3-3sigma-/- cells were unable to maintain cell-cycle arrest. The 14-3-3sigma-/- cells died ('mitotic catastrophe') as they entered mitosis. This process was associated with a failure of the 14-3-3sigma-deficient cells to sequester the proteins (cyclin B1 and cdc2) that initiate mitosis and prevent them from entering the nucleus. These results may indicate a mechanism for maintaining the G2 checkpoint and preventing mitotic death.
10524768	Crystal structure of the complex formed between bovine beta-trypsin and MCTI-A, a trypsin inhibitor of squash family, at 1.8-A resolution.	The stoichiometric complex formed between bovine beta-trypsin and Momordica charantia, Linn. Cucurbitaceae trypsin inhibitor A (MCTI-A) was crystallized and its X-ray crystal structure was refined to a final R value of 0.179 using data of 7.0- to 1.8-A resolution. Combination with results on the complex of MCTI-A with porcine trypsin gives the sequence of MCTI-A definitely, of which 13 residues are conserved compared with other squash family trypsin inhibitors. Its spatial structure and the conformation of its primary binding segment from Cys3I (P3) to Glu7I (P3'), which contains a reactive scissile bond Arg5I C-Ile6I N, were found to be very similar to the other squash family proteinase inhibitors.
10527928	Oligomerization properties of fragile-X mental-retardation protein (FMRP) and the fragile-X-related proteins FXR1P and FXR2P.	The absence of fragile-X mental-retardation protein (FMRP) results in fragile-X syndrome. Two other fragile-X-related (FXR) proteins have been described, FXR1P and FXR2P, which are both very similar in amino acid sequence to FMRP. Interaction between the three proteins as well as with themselves has been demonstrated. The FXR proteins are believed to play a role in RNA metabolism. To characterize a possible functional role of the interacting proteins the complex formation of the FXR proteins was studied in mammalian cells. Double immunofluorescence analysis in COS cells over-expressing either FMRP ISO12/FXR1P or FMRP ISO12/FXR2P confirmed heterotypic interactions. However, Western-blotting studies on cellular homogenates containing physiological amounts of the three proteins gave different indications. Gel-filtration experiments under physiological as well as EDTA conditions showed that the FXR proteins were in complexes of >600 kDa, as parts of messenger ribonuclear protein (mRNP) particles associated with polyribosomes. Salt treatment shifted FMRP, FXR1P and FXR2P into distinct intermediate complexes, with molecular masses between 200 and 300 kDa. Immunoprecipitations of FMRP as well as FXR1P from the dissociated complexes revealed that the vast majority of the FXR proteins do not form heteromeric complexes. Further analysis by [(35)S]methionine labelling in vivo followed by immunoprecipitation indicated that no proteins other than the FXR proteins were present in these complexes. These results suggest that the FXR proteins form homo-multimers preferentially under physiological conditions in mammalian cells, and might participate in mRNP particles with separate functions.
10527948	Evidence for an interaction of the metalloprotease-disintegrin tumour necrosis factor alpha convertase (TACE) with mitotic arrest deficient 2 (MAD2), and of the metalloprotease-disintegrin MDC9 with a novel MAD2-related protein, MAD2beta.	Metalloprotease-disintegrins are a family of transmembrane glycoproteins that have a role in fertilization, sperm migration, myoblast fusion, neural development and ectodomain shedding. In the present study we used the yeast two-hybrid system to search for proteins that interact with the cytoplasmic domain of two metalloprotease-disintegrins, tumour necrosis factor alpha convertase (TACE; ADAM17) and MDC9 (ADAM9; meltrin gamma). We have identified mitotic arrest deficient 2 (MAD2) as a binding partner of the TACE cytoplasmic domain, and a novel MAD2-related protein, MAD2beta, as a binding partner of the MDC9 cytoplasmic domain. MAD2beta has 23% sequence identity with MAD2, which is a component of the spindle assembly (or mitotic) checkpoint mechanism. Northern blot analysis of human tissues indicates that MAD2beta mRNA is expressed ubiquitously. The interaction of the TACE and MDC9 cytoplasmic domains with their binding partners has been confirmed biochemically. The independent identification of MAD2 and MAD2beta as potential interacting partners of distinct metalloprotease-disintegrins raises the possibility of a link between metalloprotease-disintegrins and the cell cycle, or of functions for MAD2 and MAD2beta that are not related to cell cycle control.
10529171	Identification of residues in the monocyte chemotactic protein-1 that contact the MCP-1 receptor, CCR2.	The CC chemokine, MCP-1, has been identified as a major chemoattractant for T cells and monocytes, and plays a significant role in the pathology of inflammatory diseases. To identify the regions of MCP-1 that contact its receptor, CCR2, we substituted all surface-exposed residues with alanine. Some residues were also mutated to other amino acids to identify the importance of charge, hydrophobicity, or aromaticity at specific positions. The binding affinity of each mutant for CCR2 was assayed with THP-1 and CCR2-transfected CHL cells. The majority of point mutations had no effect. Residues at the N-terminus of the protein, known to be crucial for signaling, contribute less than a factor of 10 to the binding affinity. However, two clusters of primarily basic residues (R24, K35, K38, K49, and Y13), separated by a 35 A hydrophobic groove, reduced the level of binding by 15-100-fold. A peptide fragment encompassing residues 13-35 recapitulated some of the mutational data derived from the intact protein. It exhibited modest binding as a linear peptide and dramatically improved affinity when the region which adopts a single turn of a 3(10)-helix in the protein, which includes R24, was constrained by a disulfide bond. Additional constraints at the ends of the peptide, corresponding to the disulfide between the first and third cysteines in MCP-1, yielded further improvements in affinity. Together, these data suggest a model in which a large surface area of MCP-1 contacts the receptor, and the accumulation of a number of weak interactions results in the 35 pM affinity observed for the wild-type (WT) protein. The receptor binding site of MCP-1 also is significantly different from the binding sites of RANTES and IL-8, providing insight into the issue of receptor specificity. It was previously shown that the N-terminus of CCR2 is critical for binding MCP-1 [Monteclaro, F. S., and Charo, I. F. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 19084-92; Monteclaro, F. S., and Charo, I. F. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 23186-90]. Point mutations of six acidic residues in this region of the receptor were made to test their role in ligand binding. This identified D25 and D27 of the DYDY motif as being important. On the basis of our data, we propose a model in which the receptor N-terminus lies along the hydrophobic groove in an extended fashion, placing the DYDY motif near the basic cluster involving R24 and K49 of MCP-1. This in turn orients the signaling residues (Y13 and the N-terminus) for productive interaction with the receptor.
10531035	Identification of a family of human F-box proteins.	F-box proteins are an expanding family of eukaryotic proteins characterized by an approximately 40 aminoacid motif, the F box (so named because cyclin F was one of the first proteins in which this motif was identified) [1]. Some F-box proteins have been shown to be critical for the controlled degradation of cellular regulatory proteins [2] [3]. In fact, F-box proteins are one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligases called SCFs. The other three subunits are the Skp1 protein; one of the cullin proteins (Cul1 in metazoans and Cdc53 or Cul A in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae); and the recently identified Roc1 protein (also called Rbx1 or Hrt1). SCF ligases bring ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (either Ubc3 or Ubc4) to substrates that are specifically recruited by the different F-box proteins. The need for high substrate specificity and the large number of known F-box proteins in yeast and worms [2] [4] suggest the existence of a large family of mammalian F-box proteins. Using Skp1 as a bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen and by searching DNA databases, we identified a family of 26 human F-box proteins, 25 of which were novel. Some of these proteins contained WD-40 domains or leucine-rich repeats; others contained either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. We have named the F-box proteins that contain WD-40 domains Fbws, those containing leucine-rich repeats, Fbls, and the remaining ones Fbxs. We have further characterized representative members of these three classes of F-box proteins.
10531379	Interaction of the metalloprotease disintegrins MDC9 and MDC15 with two SH3 domain-containing proteins, endophilin I and SH3PX1.	Metalloprotease disintegrins (a disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM) and metalloprotease, disintegrin, cysteine-rich proteins (MDC)) are a family of membrane-anchored glycoproteins that function in diverse biological processes, including fertilization, neurogenesis, myogenesis, and ectodomain processing of cytokines and other proteins. The cytoplasmic domains of ADAMs often include putative signaling motifs, such as proline-rich SH3 ligand domains, suggesting that interactions with cytoplasmic proteins may affect metalloprotease disintegrin function. Here we report that two SH3 domain-containing proteins, endophilin I (SH3GL2, SH3p4) and a novel SH3 domain- and phox homology (PX) domain-containing protein, termed SH3PX1, can interact with the cytoplasmic domains of the metalloprotease disintegrins MDC9 and MDC15. These interactions were initially identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen and then confirmed using bacterial fusion proteins and co-immunoprecipitations from eukaryotic cells expressing both binding partners. SH3PX1 and endophilin I both preferentially bind the precursor but not the processed form of MDC9 and MDC15 in COS-7 cells. Since rat endophilin I is thought to play a role in synaptic vesicle endocytosis and SH3PX1 has sequence similarity to sorting nexins in yeast, we propose that endophilin I and SH3PX1 may have a role in regulating the function of MDC9 and MDC15 by influencing their intracellular processing, transport, or final subcellular localization.
10531381	Ligand-induced ubiquitination of the epidermal growth factor receptor involves the interaction of the c-Cbl RING finger and UbcH7.	c-Cbl plays a negative regulatory role in tyrosine kinase signaling by an as yet undefined mechanism. We demonstrate here, using the yeast two-hybrid system and an in vitro binding assay, that the c-Cbl RING finger domain interacts with UbcH7, a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2). UbcH7 interacted with the wild-type c-Cbl RING finger domain but not with a RING finger domain that lacks the amino acids that are deleted in 70Z-Cbl, an oncogenic mutant of c-Cbl. The in vitro interaction was enhanced by sequences on both the N- and C-terminal sides of the RING finger. In vivo and in vitro experiments revealed that c-Cbl and UbcH7 synergistically promote the ligand-induced ubiquitination of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). In contrast, 70Z-Cbl markedly reduced the ligand-induced, UbcH7-mediated ubiquitination of the EGFR. MG132, a proteasome inhibitor, significantly prolonged the ligand-induced phosphorylation of both the EGFR and c-Cbl. Thus, c-Cbl plays an essential role in the ligand-induced ubiquitination of the EGFR by a mechanism that involves an interaction of the RING finger domain with UbcH7. This mechanism participates in the down-regulation of tyrosine kinase receptors and loss of this function, as occurs in the naturally occurring 70Z-Cbl isoform, probably contributes to oncogenic transformation.
10542097	Arginase-boronic acid complex highlights a physiological role in erectile function.	The crystal structure of the complex between the binuclear manganese metalloenzyme arginase and the boronic acid analog of L-arginine, 2(S)-amino-6-boronohexanoic acid (ABH), has been determined at 1.7 A resolution from a crystal perfectly twinned by hemihedry. ABH binds as the tetrahedral boronate anion, with one hydroxyl oxygen symmetrically bridging the binuclear manganese cluster and a second hydroxyl oxygen coordinating to Mn2+A. This binding mode mimics the transition state of a metal-activated hydroxide mechanism. This transition state structure differs from that occurring in NO biosynthesis, thereby explaining why ABH does not inhibit NO synthase. We also show that arginase activity is present in the penis. Accordingly, the tight binding and specificity of ABH allows us to probe the physiological role of arginase in modulating the NO-dependent smooth muscle relaxation required for erection. Strikingly, ABH causes significant enhancement of nonadrenergic, noncholinergic nerve-mediated relaxation of penile corpus cavernosum smooth muscle, suggesting that arginase inhibition sustains L-arginine concentrations for NO synthase activity. Therefore, human penile arginase is a potential target for therapeutic intervention in the treatment of erectile dysfunction.
10542258	A novel NE-dlg/SAP102-associated protein, p51-nedasin, related to the amidohydrolase superfamily, interferes with the association between NE-dlg/SAP102 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor.	The membrane-associated guanylate kinase proteins have been known to interact various membrane receptors with their N-terminal segments designated the PDZ domains and to cluster these receptors at the target site of the cell membrane. NE-dlg/SAP102, a neuronal and endocrine tissue-specific MAGUK family protein, was found to be expressed in both dendrites and cell bodies in neuronal cells. Although NE-dlg/SAP102 localized at dendrites was shown to interact with N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2B via the PDZ domains to compose postsynaptic density, the binding proteins existing in the cell body of the neuron are still unknown. Here we report the isolation of a novel NE-dlg/SAP102-associated protein, p51-nedasin. Nedasin has a significant homology with amidohydrolase superfamily proteins and shows identical sequences to a recently identified protein that has guanine aminohydrolase activity. Nedasin has four alternative splice variants (S, V1, V2, and V3) that exhibited different C-terminal structures. NE-dlg/SAP102 is shown to interact with only the S form of nedasin which is predominantly expressed in brain. The expression of nedasin in neuronal cells increases in parallel with the progress of synaptogenesis and is mainly detected in cell bodies where it co-localizes with NE-dlg/SAP102. Furthermore, nedasin interferes with the association between NE-dlg/SAP102 and NMDA receptor 2B in vitro. These findings suggest that alternative splicing of nedasin may play a role in the formation and/or structural change in synapses during neuronal development by modifying clustering of neurotransmitter receptors at the synaptic sites.
10544080	Hepatitis C virus RNA polymerase and NS5A complex with a SNARE-like protein.	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A is a phosphoprotein that possesses a cryptic trans-activation activity. To investigate its potential role in viral replication, we searched for the cellular proteins interacting with NS5A protein by yeast two-hybrid screening of a human hepatocyte cDNA library. We identified a newly discovered soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor-like protein termed human vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein of 33 kDa (hVAP-33). In vitro binding assay and in vivo coimmunoprecipitation studies confirmed the interaction between hVAP-33 and NS5A. Interestingly, hVAP-33 was also shown to interact with NS5B, the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. NS5A and NS5B bind to different domains of hVAP-33: NS5A binds to the C-terminus, whereas NS5B binds to the N-terminus of hVAP-33. Immunofluorescent staining showed a significant colocalization of hVAP-33 with both NS5A and NS5B proteins. hVAP-33 contains a coiled-coil domain followed by a membrane-spanning domain at its C-terminus. Cell fractionation analysis revealed that hVAP-33 is predominantly associated with the ER, the Golgi complex, and the prelysosomal membrane, consistent with its potential role in intracellular membrane trafficking. These interactions provide a mechanism for membrane association of the HCV RNA replication complex and further suggest that NS5A is a part of the viral RNA replication complex.
10544104	Adenovirus E4 34k and E4 11k inhibit double strand break repair and are physically associated with the cellular DNA-dependent protein kinase.	The adenovirus oncoproteins E4 34k and E4 11k, the products of E4 open reading frames 6 and 3, respectively, individually prevent the formation of concatemers of the linear viral genome in infected cells. We show here that genome concatenation in E4 mutant-infected cells requires the cellular DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA PK) and that E4 34k inhibits V(D)J recombination, a normal cellular process that is also dependent on DNA PK. We further show that both E4 34k and E4 11k coimmunoprecipitate with DNA PK. These observations indicate that E4 products block formation of concatemers of the viral genome by inhibiting DNA PK-dependent double strand break repair and suggest that they act by forming a physical complex with DNA PK. DNA PK also participates in activation of p53 DNA-binding activity by DNA damage. By inhibiting DNA PK function, E4 products may block p53 activation in response to the products of viral DNA replication and thus provide a new mechanism to prevent apoptosis of infected cells.
10544233	Functional interaction of Fas-associated phosphatase-1 (FAP-1) with p75(NTR) and their effect on NF-kappaB activation.	The common neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR), a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily, plays an important role in several cellular signaling cascades, including that leading to apoptosis. FAP-1 (Fas-associated phosphatase-1), which binds to the cytoplasmic tail of Fas, was originally identified as a negative regulator of Fas-mediated apoptosis. Here we have shown by co-immunoprecipitation that FAP-1 also binds to the p75(NTR) cytoplasmic domain in vivo through the interaction between the third PDZ domain of FAP-1 and C-terminal Ser-Pro-Val residues of p75(NTR). Furthermore, cells expressing a FAP-1/green fluorescent protein showed intracellular co-localization of FAP-1 and p75(NTR) at the plasma membrane. To elucidate the functional role of this physical interaction, we examined TRAF6 (TNF receptor-associated factor 6)-mediated NF-kappaB activation and tamoxifen-induced apoptosis in 293T cells expressing p75(NTR). The results revealed that TRAF6-mediated NF-kappaB activation was suppressed by p75(NTR) and that the p75(NTR)-mediated NF-kappaB suppression was reduced by FAP-1 expression. Interestingly, a mutant of the p75(NTR) intracellular domain with a single substitution of a Met for Val in its C-terminus, which cannot interact with FAP-1, displayed enhanced pro-apoptotic activity in 293T transfected cells. Thus, similar to Fas, FAP-1 may be involved in suppressing p75(NTR)-mediated pro-apoptotic signaling through its interaction with three C-terminal amino acids (tSPV). Thus, FAP-1 may regulate p75(NTR)-mediated signal transduction by physiological interaction through its third PDZ domain.
10545507	Different dystrophin-like complexes are expressed in neurons and glia.	Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a fatal muscle disease that is often associated with cognitive impairment. Accordingly, dystrophin is found at the muscle sarcolemma and at postsynaptic sites in neurons. In muscle, dystrophin forms part of a membrane-spanning complex, the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DPC). Whereas the composition of the DPC in muscle is well documented, the existence of a similar complex in brain remains largely unknown. To determine the composition of DPC-like complexes in brain, we have examined the molecular associations and distribution of the dystrobrevins, a widely expressed family of dystrophin-associated proteins, some of which are components of the muscle DPC. beta-Dystrobrevin is found in neurons and is highly enriched in postsynaptic densities (PSDs). Furthermore, beta-dystrobrevin forms a specific complex with dystrophin and syntrophin. By contrast, alpha-dystrobrevin-1 is found in perivascular astrocytes and Bergmann glia, and is not PSD-enriched. alpha-Dystrobrevin-1 is associated with Dp71, utrophin, and syntrophin. In the brains of mice that lack dystrophin and Dp71, the dystrobrevin-syntrophin complexes are still formed, whereas in dystrophin-deficient muscle, the assembly of the DPC is disrupted. Thus, despite the similarity in primary sequence, alpha- and beta-dystrobrevin are differentially distributed in the brain where they form separate DPC-like complexes.
10548487	nRap GEP: a novel neural GDP/GTP exchange protein for rap1 small G protein that interacts with synaptic scaffolding molecule (S-SCAM).	Synaptic scaffolding molecule (S-SCAM) has six PDZ domains through which it interacts with N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors and neuroligin at synaptic junctions. We isolated here a novel S-SCAM-binding protein. This protein has one PDZ, one Ras association, one Ras GDP/GTP exchange protein (Ras GEP) domain, and one C-terminal consensus motif for binding to PDZ domains. We named it nRap GEP (neural Rap GEP). nRap GEP moreover has an incomplete cyclic AMP (cAMP)-binding (CAB) domain. The domain organization of nRap GEP is similar to that of Epac/cAMP-guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) I, except that Epac/cAMP-GEFI has complete CAB and Ras GEP domains but lacks the other two domains and the C-terminal motif. nRap GEP showed GEP activity for Rap1 but did not bind cAMP. nRap GEP was specifically expressed in rat brain. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that nRap GEP and S-SCAM were localized at synaptic areas of the cerebellum. These results suggest that nRap GEP is a novel neural Rap1-specific GEP which is associated with S-SCAM.
10551855	Human alpha spectrin II and the Fanconi anemia proteins FANCA and FANCC interact to form a nuclear complex.	Fanconi anemia (FA) is a genetic disorder characterized by bone marrow failure, congenital abnormalities, cancer susceptibility, and a marked cellular hypersensitivity to DNA interstrand cross-linking agents, which correlates with a defect in ability to repair this type of damage. We have previously identified an approximately 230-kDa protein present in a nuclear protein complex in normal human lymphoblastoid cells that is involved in repair of DNA interstrand cross-links and shows reduced levels in FA-A cell nuclei. The FANCA gene appears to play a role in the stability or expression of this protein. We now show that p230 is a well known structural protein, human alpha spectrin II (alphaSpIISigma*), and that levels of alphaSpIISigma* are not only significantly reduced in FA-A cells but also in FA-B, FA-C and FA-D cells (i.e. in all FA cell lines tested), suggesting a role for these FA proteins in the stability or expression of alphaSpIISigma*. These studies also show that alphaSpIISigma* forms a complex in the nucleus with the FANCA and FANCC proteins. alphaSpIISigma* may thus act as a scaffold to align or enhance interactions between FA proteins and proteins involved in DNA repair. These results suggest that FA represents a disorder in which there is a deficiency in alphaSpIISigma*.
10556305	A novel RNA-binding nuclear protein that interacts with the fragile X mental retardation (FMR1) protein.	Silenced expression of the FMR1 gene is responsible for the fragile X syndrome. The FMR1 gene codes for an RNA binding protein (FMRP), which can shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm and is found associated to polysomes in the cytoplasm. By two-hybrid assay in yeast, we identified a novel protein interacting with FMRP: nuclear FMRP interacting protein (NUFIP). NUFIP mRNA expression is strikingly similar to that of the FMR1 gene in neurones of cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum. At the subcellular level, NUFIP colocalizes with nuclear isoforms of FMRP in a dot-like pattern. NUFIP presents a C2H2 zinc finger motif and a nuclear localization signal, but has no homology to known proteins and shows RNA binding activity in vitro. NUFIP does not interact with the FMRP homologues encoded by the FXR1 and FXR2 genes. Thus, these results indicate a specific nuclear role for FMRP.
10556826	Interaction of SLP adaptors with the SH2 domain of Tec family kinases.	Activation of lymphocytes through their antigen receptors leads to mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+) ions. This process requires expression of SLP adaptors and involves phosphorylation of phospholipase C-gamma isoforms by the Tec-related protein tyrosine kinase Btk in B cells and Itk in T cells. The SH2 domain of Btk and Itk is essential for phospholipase C-gamma phosphorylation and mutations in this domain lead to the X-linked agammaglobulinemia immuno deficiency in humans. Here we show that, in contrast to SH2 domains from other signaling proteins, the Btk and Itk SH2 domains exhibit a restricted binding specificity. They bind selectively to tyrosine-phosphorylated SLP-65 and SLP-76 in activated B and T cells, respectively. Our findings suggest that Btk/Itk and phospholipase C-gamma both bind via their SH2 domain to phosphorylated SLP adaptors, and that this association is required for the activation of phospholipase C-gamma.
10557078	Epsin binds to the EH domain of POB1 and regulates receptor-mediated endocytosis.	POB1 has been identified as a RalBP1-binding protein and has the Eps15 homology (EH) domain. The EH domain-containing proteins have been suggested to be involved in clathrin-dependent endocytosis. To clarify the function of POB1, we purified a protein which binds to the EH domain of POB1 from bovine brain cytosol and identified it as Epsin, which is known to bind to the EH domain of Eps15. Epsin has three Asn-Pro-Phe (NPF) motifs in the C-terminal region, which are known to form the core sequence for the binding to the EH domain. The EH domain of POB1 interacted directly with the region containing the NPF motifs of Epsin. Expression of Epsin in CHO-IR cells inhibited internalization of insulin although it affected neither insulin-binding nor autophosphorylation activities of the insulin receptor. Taken together with the observations that Epsin is involved in internalization of the receptors for epidermal growth factor and transferrin, these results suggest that Epsin is a binding partner of POB1 and their binding regulates receptor-mediated endocytosis.
10557092	The physical association and phosphorylation of Cdc25C protein phosphatase by Prk.	prk encodes a protein serine/threonine kinase involved in regulating M phase functions during the cell cycle. We have expressed His6-Prk and His6-Cdc25C proteins using the baculoviral vector expression system. Purified recombinant His6-Prk, but not a kinase-defective mutant His6-PrkK52R, is capable of strongly phosphorylating His6-Cdc25C in vitro. Co-immunoprecipitation and affinity column chromatography experiments demonstrate that GST-Prk and native Cdc25C interact. When co-infected with His6-Prk and His6-Cdc25C recombinant baculoviruses, sf-9 cells produce His6-Cdc25C antigen with an additional slower mobility band on denaturing polyacrylamide gels compared with cells infected with His6-Cdc25C baculovirus alone. In addition, His6-Cdc25C immunoprecipitated from sf-9 cells co-infected with His6-Prk and His6-Cdc25C baculoviruses, but not with His6-PrkK52R and His6-Cdc25C baculoviruses, contains a greatly enhanced kinase activity that phosphorylates His6-Cdc25C in vitro. Moreover, phosphopeptide mapping shows that His6-Prk phosphorylates His6-Cdc25C at two sites in vitro and that the major phosphorylation site co-migrates with the one that is phosphorylated in vivo in asynchonized cells. Further studies reveal that His6-Prk phosphorylates Cdc25C on serine216, a residue also phosphorylated by Chk1 and Chk2. Together, these observations strongly suggest that Prk's role in mitosis is at least partly mediated through direct regulation of Cdc25C.
10557209	A specific protein-protein interaction accounts for the in vivo substrate selectivity of Ptp3 towards the Fus3 MAP kinase.	The mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) play critical roles in many signal transduction processes. Several MAPKs have been found in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, including Fus3 in the mating pathway and Hog1 in the osmotic-stress response pathway. Cells lacking Fus3 or Hog1 activity are deficient in mating or adaptation to osmotic shock, respectively. However, constitutive activation of either Fus3 or Hog1 is lethal. Therefore, yeast cells have to tightly regulate both the activation and inactivation of Fus3 and Hog1 MAPKs, which are controlled mainly by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. Previous studies have shown that Fus3 activity is negatively regulated by protein tyrosine phosphatase Ptp3. In contrast, the Hog1 MAPK is mainly dephosphorylated by Ptp2 even though the two phosphatases share a high degree of sequence similarity. To understand the mechanisms of MAPK regulation, we examined the molecular basis underlying the in vivo substrate specificity between phosphatases and MAPKs. We observed that the amino-terminal noncatalytic domain of Ptp3 directly interacts with Fus3 via CH2 (Cdc25 homology) domain conserved among yeast PTPases and mammalian MAP kinase phosphatases and is responsible for the in vivo substrate selectivity of the phosphatase. Interaction between Ptp3 and Fus3 is required for dephosphorylation and inactivation of Fus3 under physiological conditions. Mutations in either Ptp3 or Fus3 that abolish this interaction cause a dysregulation of the Fus3 MAPK. Our data demonstrate that the specificity of MAP kinase inactivation in vivo by phosphatases is determined by specific protein-protein interactions outside of the phosphatase catalytic domain.
10559330	Physical and functional interaction between the Y-box binding protein YB-1 and human polyomavirus JC virus large T antigen.	Y-box binding protein YB-1 is a member of a family of DNA and RNA binding proteins which have been shown to affect gene expression at both the transcriptional and translational levels. We have previously shown that YB-1 modulates transcription from the promoters of the ubiquitous human polyomavirus JC virus (JCV). Here we investigate the physical and functional interplay between YB-1 and the viral regulatory protein large T antigen (T-antigen), using JCV as a model system. Results of mobility band shift assays demonstrated that the efficiency of binding of YB-1 to a 23-bp single-stranded viral target sequence was significantly increased when T-antigen was included in the binding reaction mixture. Affinity chromatography and coimmunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that YB-1 and T-antigen physically interact with each other. Additionally, results of transcription studies demonstrated that these two proteins interact functionally on the JCV early and late gene promoters. Whereas ectopic expression of YB-1 and T-antigen results in synergistic transactivation of the viral late promoter, YB-1 alleviates T-antigen-mediated transcriptional suppression of the viral early promoter activity. Furthermore, we have localized, through the use of a series of deletion mutants, the sequences of these proteins which are important for their interaction. The T-antigen-interacting region of YB-1 is located in the cold shock domain of YB-1 and its immediate flanking sequences, and the YB-1-interacting domain of T-antigen maps to the carboxy-terminal half of T-antigen. Results of transient transfection assays with various YB-1 mutants and T-antigen expression constructs confirm the specificity of the functional interaction between YB-1 and T-antigen. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the cellular factor YB-1 and the viral regulatory protein T-antigen interact both physically and functionally and that this interaction modulates transcription from the JCV promoters.
10562277	Sec34p, a protein required for vesicle tethering to the yeast Golgi apparatus, is in a complex with Sec35p.	A screen for mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae secretory pathway components previously yielded sec34, a mutant that accumulates numerous vesicles and fails to transport proteins from the ER to the Golgi complex at the restrictive temperature (Wuestehube, L.J., R. Duden, A. Eun, S. Hamamoto, P. Korn, R. Ram, and R. Schekman. 1996. Genetics. 142:393-406). We find that SEC34 encodes a novel protein of 93-kD, peripherally associated with membranes. The temperature-sensitive phenotype of sec34-2 is suppressed by the rab GTPase Ypt1p that functions early in the secretory pathway, or by the dominant form of the ER to Golgi complex target-SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor)-associated protein Sly1p, Sly1-20p. Weaker suppression is evident upon overexpression of genes encoding the vesicle tethering factor Uso1p or the vesicle-SNAREs Sec22p, Bet1p, or Ykt6p. This genetic suppression profile is similar to that of sec35-1, a mutant allele of a gene encoding an ER to Golgi vesicle tethering factor and, like Sec35p, Sec34p is required in vitro for vesicle tethering. sec34-2 and sec35-1 display a synthetic lethal interaction, a genetic result explained by the finding that Sec34p and Sec35p can interact by two-hybrid analysis. Fractionation of yeast cytosol indicates that Sec34p and Sec35p exist in an approximately 750-kD protein complex. Finally, we describe RUD3, a novel gene identified through a genetic screen for multicopy suppressors of a mutation in USO1, which suppresses the sec34-2 mutation as well.
10562288	Yes-associated protein 65 localizes p62(c-Yes) to the apical compartment of airway epithelia by association with EBP50.	We recently showed that the COOH terminus of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator associates with the submembranous scaffolding protein EBP50 (ERM-binding phosphoprotein 50 kD; also called Na(+)/H(+) exchanger regulatory factor). Since EBP50 associates with ezrin, this interaction links the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) to the cortical actin cytoskeleton. EBP50 has two PDZ domains, and CFTR binds with high affinity to the first PDZ domain. Here, we report that Yes-associated protein 65 (YAP65) binds with high affinity to the second EBP50 PDZ domain. YAP65 is concentrated at the apical membrane in airway epithelia and interacts with EBP50 in cells. The COOH terminus of YAP65 is necessary and sufficient to mediate association with EBP50. The EBP50-YAP65 interaction is involved in the compartmentalization of YAP65 at the apical membrane since mutant YAP65 proteins lacking the EBP50 interaction motif are mislocalized when expressed in airway epithelial cells. In addition, we show that the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase c-Yes is contained within EBP50 protein complexes by association with YAP65. Subapical EBP50 protein complexes, containing the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase c-Yes, may regulate apical signal transduction pathways leading to changes in ion transport, cytoskeletal organization, or gene expression in epithelial cells.
10564265	Genetic and biochemical characterization of the yeast spo12 protein.	We have performed a genetic and biochemical analysis of the SPO12 gene, which regulates meiotic nuclear divisions in budding yeast. When sporulated, spo12 mutants undergo a single meiotic nuclear division most closely resembling meiosis II. We observed that Spo12 protein is localized to the nucleus during both meiotic divisions and that Clb1-Cdc28, Clb3-Cdc28, Clb4-Cdc28, and Clb5-Cdc28 kinase activities during meiosis were not affected by a spo12 mutation. Using two-hybrid analysis, we identified several genes, three of which are meiotically induced, that may code for proteins that interact with Spo12p. We also observed that two genes, BNS1 (Bypasses Need for Spo12p), which has homology to SPO12, and SPO13, whose mutant phenotype is like that of spo12, can partially suppress the meiotic defect of spo12 mutants when overexpressed. We found that Spo12p is also localized to the nucleus in vegetative cells and that its level peaks during G2/M. We observed that a spo12 mutation is synthetically lethal in vegetative cells with a mutation in HCT1, a gene necessary for cells to exit mitosis, suggesting that Spo12p may have a role in exit from mitosis.
10567268	Structural analysis of the mechanism of adenovirus binding to its human cellular receptor, CAR.	Binding of virus particles to specific host cell surface receptors is known to be an obligatory step in infection even though the molecular basis for these interactions is not well characterized. The crystal structure of the adenovirus fiber knob domain in complex with domain I of its human cellular receptor, coxsackie and adenovirus receptor (CAR), is presented here. Surface-exposed loops on knob contact one face of CAR, forming a high-affinity complex. Topology mismatches between interacting surfaces create interfacial solvent-filled cavities and channels that may be targets for antiviral drug therapy. The structure identifies key determinants of binding specificity, which may suggest ways to modify the tropism of adenovirus-based gene therapy vectors.
10567518	Isolation of an FMRP-associated messenger ribonucleoprotein particle and identification of nucleolin and the fragile X-related proteins as components of the complex.	The loss of FMR1 expression due to trinucleotide repeat expansion leads to fragile X syndrome, a cause of mental retardation. The encoded protein, FMRP, is a member of a gene family that also contains the fragile X-related proteins, FXR1P and FXR2P. FMRP has been shown to be a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein that selectively binds a subset of mRNAs, forms messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) complexes, and associates with translating ribosomes. Here we describe a cell culture system from which we can isolate epitope-tagged FMRP along with mRNA, including its own message, and at least six other proteins. We identify two of these proteins as FXR1P and FXR2P by using specific antisera and identify a third protein as nucleolin by using mass spectrometry. The presence of nucleolin is confirmed by both reactivity with a specific antiserum as well as reverse coimmunoprecipitation where antinucleolin antiserum immunoprecipitates endogenous FMRP from both cultured cells and mouse brain. The identification of nucleolin, a known component of other mRNPs, adds a new dimension to the analysis of FMRP function, and the approach described should also allow the identification of the remaining unknown proteins of this FMRP-associated mRNP as well as the other bound mRNAs.
10567578	Human Nopp140, which interacts with RNA polymerase I: implications for rRNA gene transcription and nucleolar structural organization.	Nopp140 is thought to shuttle between nucleolus and cytoplasm. However, the predominant nucleolar localization of Nopp140 homologues from different species suggests that Nopp140 is also involved in events occurring within the nucleolus. In this study, we demonstrated that the largest subunit of RNA polymerase I, RPA194, was coimmunoprecipitated with the human Nopp140 (hNopp140). Such an interaction is mediated through amino acids 204 to 382 of hNopp140. By double immunofluorescence, hNopp140 was colocalized with RNA polymerase I at the rDNA (rRNA genes) transcription active foci in the nucleolus. These results suggest that Nopp140 can interact with RNA polymerase I in vivo. Transfected cells expressing the amino-terminal half of hNopp140, hNopp140N382 (amino acids 1 to 382), displayed altered nucleoli with crescent-shaped structures. This phenotype is reminiscent of the segregated nucleoli induced by actinomycin D treatment, which is known to inhibit rRNA synthesis. Consistently, the hNopp140N382 protein mislocalized the endogenous RNA polymerase I and shut off cellular rRNA gene transcription as revealed by an in situ run-on assay. These dominant negative effects of the mutant hNopp140N382 suggest that Nopp140 plays an essential role in rDNA transcription. Interestingly, ectopic expression of hNopp140 to a very high level caused the formation of a transcriptionally inactive spherical structure occupying the entire nucleolar area which trapped the RNA polymerase I, fibrillarin, and hNopp140 but excluded the nucleolin. The mislocalizations of these nucleolar proteins after hNopp140 overexpression imply that Nopp140 may also play roles in maintenance of nucleolar integrity.
10571240	Reelin is a ligand for lipoprotein receptors.	A signaling pathway involving the extracellular protein Reelin and the intracellular adaptor protein Disabled-1 (Dab1) controls cell positioning during mammalian brain development. Here, we demonstrate that Reelin binds directly to lipoprotein receptors, preferably the very low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2). Binding requires calcium, and it is inhibited in the presence of apoE. Furthermore, the CR-50 monoclonal antibody, which inhibits Reelin function, blocks the association of Reelin with VLDLR. After binding to VLDLR on the cell surface, Reelin is internalized into vesicles. In dissociated neurons, apoE reduces the level of Reelin-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Dab1. These data suggest that Reelin directs neuronal migration by binding to VLDLR and ApoER2.
10574993	Interaction of c-Jun amino-terminal kinase interacting protein-1 with p190 rhoGEF and its localization in differentiated neurons.	c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK) interacting protein-1 (JIP-1) was originally identified as a cytoplasmic inhibitor of JNK. More recently, JIP-1 was proposed to function as a scaffold protein by complexing specific components of the JNK signaling pathway, namely JNK, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 7, and mixed lineage kinase 3. We have identified the human homologue of JIP-1 that contains a phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain in addition to a JNK binding domain and an Src homology 3 domain. To identify binding targets for the hJIP-1 PTB domain, a mouse embryo cDNA library was screened using the yeast two-hybrid system. One clone encoded a 191-amino acid region of the neuronal protein rhoGEF, an exchange factor for rhoA. Overexpression of rhoGEF promotes cytoskeletal rearrangement and cell rounding in NIE-115 neuronal cells. The interaction of JIP-1 with rhoGEF was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation of these proteins from lysates of transiently transfected HEK 293 cells. Using glutathione S-transferase rhoGEF fusion proteins containing deletion or point mutations, we identified a putative PTB binding site within rhoGEF. This binding site does not contain tyrosine, indicating that the JIP PTB domain, like that of Xll alpha and Numb, binds independently of phosphotyrosine. Several forms of endogenous JIP-1 protein can be detected in neuronal cell lines. Indirect immunofluorescence analysis localized endogenous JIP-1 to the tip of the neurites in differentiated NIE-115 and PC12 cells. The interaction of JIP-1 with rhoGEF and its subcellular localization suggests that JIP-1 may function to specifically localize a signaling complex in neuronal cells.
10579814	Design of MKC-442 (emivirine) analogues with improved activity against drug-resistant HIV mutants.	Two analogues of the nonnucleoside inhibitor of HIV-1 RT, MKC-442 (emivirine), containing different C6 substituents have been designed to be less susceptible to the commonly found drug-resistance mutation of Tyr181Cys. Compound TNK-6123 had a C6 thiocyclohexyl group designed to have more flexibility in adapting to the mutated drug-binding site. GCA-186 had additional 3',5'-dimethyl substituents aimed at forming close contacts with the conserved residue Trp229. Both compounds showed approximately 30-fold greater inhibitory effect than MKC-442 to the Tyr181Cys mutant virus as well as to the clinically important Lys103Asn virus. X-ray crystallographic structure determination of complexes with HIV-1 RT confirmed the predicted binding modes. These strategies might be used to improve the resilience of other NNRTI series against common drug-resistance mutations.
10588641	Phosphorylation of SNAP-23 by the novel kinase SNAK regulates t-SNARE complex assembly.	The docking and fusion of cargo-containing vesicles with target membranes of eukaryotic cells is mediated by the interaction of SNARE proteins present on both vesicle and target membranes. In many cases, the target membrane SNARE, or t-SNARE, exists as a complex of syntaxin with a member of the SNAP-25 family of palmitoylated proteins. We have identified a novel human kinase SNAK (SNARE kinase) that specifically phosphorylates the nonneuronal t-SNARE SNAP-23 in vivo. Interestingly, only SNAP-23 that is not assembled into t-SNARE complexes is phosphorylated by SNAK, and phosphorylated SNAP-23 resides exclusively in the cytosol. Coexpression with SNAK significantly enhances the stability of unassembled SNAP-23, and as a consequence, the assembly of newly synthesized SNAP-23 with syntaxin is augmented. These data demonstrate that phosphorylation of SNAP-23 by SNAK enhances the kinetics of t-SNARE assembly in vivo.
10588692	The small ribosomal subunit from Thermus thermophilus at 4.5 A resolution: pattern fittings and the identification of a functional site.	The electron density map of the small ribosomal subunit from Thermus thermophilus, constructed at 4.5 A resolution, shows the recognizable morphology of this particle, as well as structural features that were interpreted as ribosomal RNA and proteins. Unbiased assignments, carried out by quantitative covalent binding of heavy atom compounds at predetermined sites, led to the localization of the surface of the ribosomal protein S13 at a position compatible with previous assignments, whereas the surface of S11 was localized at a distance of about twice its diameter from the site suggested for its center by neutron scattering. Proteins S5 and S7, whose structures have been determined crystallographically, were visually placed in the map with no alterations in their conformations. Regions suitable to host the fold of protein S15 were detected in several positions, all at a significant distance from the location of this protein in the neutron scattering map. Targeting the 16S RNA region, where mRNA docks to allow the formation of the initiation complex by a mercurated mRNA analog, led to the characterization of its vicinity.
10590261	Isolation and characterization of a novel HS1 SH3 domain binding protein, HS1BP3.	We have isolated a novel gene, HS1BP3, which encodes an HS1 binding protein. Analysis of HS1BP3 cDNA indicates several potentially important segments, including a PX domain, a leucine zipper, immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif-like motifs and proline-rich regions. HS1BP3 associates with HS1 proteins in vivo as confirmed by immunoprecipitation in B and T cell lines. HS1BP3 preferentially associates with the HS1 SH3 domains rather than with other SH3 molecules, suggesting a role of HS1BP3 as an HS1 signaling mediator. Overexpression of mutant HS1BP3 protein in T cell lines results in decreased IL-2 production. Our data suggest a novel role for HS1BP3 in lymphocyte activation.
10591216	Bazooka provides an apical cue for Inscuteable localization in Drosophila neuroblasts.	Asymmetric cell division generates daughter cells with different developmental fates from progenitor cells that contain localized determinants. During this division, the asymmetric localization of cell-fate determinants and the orientation of the mitotic spindle must be precisely coordinated. In Drosophila neuroblasts, inscuteable controls both spindle orientation and the asymmetric localization of the cell-fate determinants Prospero and Numb. Inscuteable itself is localized in an apical cortical crescent and thus reflects the intrinsic asymmetry of the neuroblast. Here we show that localization of Inscuteable depends on Bazooka, a protein containing three PDZ domains with overall sequence similarity to Par-3 of Caenorhabditis elegans. Bazooka and Inscuteable form a complex that also contains Staufen, a protein responsible for the asymmetric localization of prospero messenger RNA. We propose that, after delamination of the neuroblast from the neuroepithelium, Bazooka provides an asymmetric cue in the apical cytocortex that is required to anchor Inscuteable. As Bazooka is also responsible for the maintenance of apical-basal polarity in epithelial tissues, it may be the missing link between epithelial polarity and neuroblast polarity.
10593900	MRG1 binds to the LIM domain of Lhx2 and may function as a coactivator to stimulate glycoprotein hormone alpha-subunit gene expression.	Tissue-specific expression of the alpha-subunit gene of glycoprotein hormones involves an enhancer element designated the pituitary glycoprotein basal element, which interacts with the LIM homeodomain transcription factor, Lhx2. In the present studies we have explored the function of the LIM domain of Lhx2 in stimulating alpha-subunit transcription. When fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain, the LIM domain of Lhx2 was shown to contain a transcriptional activation domain. Furthermore, in the context of an alpha-subunit reporter gene in which a GAL4-binding site replaced the pituitary glycoprotein basal element, the LIM domain enhanced both basal and Ras-mediated transcription. In addition, a synergistic response to Ras activation was observed when the Lhx2 LIM domain and the transactivation domain of Elk1 are directed to a minimal reporter gene. A yeast two-hybrid screen identified the recently described melanocyte-specific gene-related gene 1 (MRG1) as an Lhx2 LIM-interacting protein. MRG1 was shown to bind Lhx2 in vitro, and a co-immunoprecipitation assay provided evidence that endogenous MRG1 forms a complex with Lhx2 in alphaT3-1 cells. Expression of MRG1 in alphaT3-1 cells enhanced alpha-subunit reporter gene activity. MRG1 was also shown to bind in vitro to the TATA-binding protein and the transcriptional coactivator, p300. These data suggest a model in which the Lhx2 LIM domain activates transcription through interaction with MRG1 leading to recruitment of p300/CBP and the TATA-binding protein.
10593949	Association of two nuclear proteins, Npw38 and NpwBP, via the interaction between the WW domain and a novel proline-rich motif containing glycine and arginine.	We have previously reported a nuclear protein possessing a WW domain, Npw38 (Komuro, A., Saeki, M., and Kato, S. (1999) Nucleic Acids Res. 27, 1957-1965). Here we report a Npw38-binding protein, NpwBP, isolated from HeLa cell nuclear extracts and its characterization using a cloned cDNA. NpwBP contains two proline-rich regions that are capable of binding to the WW domain of Npw38. The binding analysis using an oligopeptide-immobilized membrane revealed that the WW domain of Npw38 preferentially recognizes a short proline-rich sequence, PPGPPP, surrounded by an arginine residue, so we named it a PGR motif. Localization analysis using green fluorescent protein fusion protein and immunostaining showed that Npw38 and NpwBP are colocalized in the same subnuclear region. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments confirmed the association between Npw38 and NpwBP, which were expressed as epitope-tagged forms in COS7 cells. Furthermore, the N-terminal region of NpwBP has binding ability for poly(rG) and G-rich single-stranded DNA. These results suggest that NpwBP is a physiological ligand of Npw38 and that the Npw38-NpwBP complex may function as a component of an mRNA factory in the nucleus.
10593986	Binding of 14-3-3 protein to the plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase AHA2 involves the three C-terminal residues Tyr(946)-Thr-Val and requires phosphorylation of Thr(947).	14-3-3 proteins play a regulatory role in a diverse array of cellular functions such as apoptosis, regulation of the cell cycle, and regulation of gene transcription. The phytotoxin fusicoccin specifically induces association of virtually any 14-3-3 protein to plant plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase. The 14-3-3 binding site in the Arabidopsis plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase AHA2 was localized to the three C-terminal residues of the enzyme (Tyr(946)-Thr-Val). Binding of 14-3-3 protein to this target was induced by phosphorylation of Thr(947) (K(D) = 88 nM) and was in practice irreversible in the presence of fusicoccin (K(D) = 7 nM). Mass spectrometry analysis demonstrated that AHA2 expressed in yeast was phosphorylated at Thr(947). We conclude that the extreme end of AHA2 contains an unusual high-affinity binding site for 14-3-3 protein.
10597240	Association of Pur alpha and E2F-1 suppresses transcriptional activity of E2F-1.	Protein-protein interaction can play an important role in the control of several biological events including gene transcription, replication and cell proliferation. E2F-1 is a DNA-binding transcription factor which, upon interaction with its target DNA sequence, induces expression of several S phase specific genes allowing progression of the cell cycle. Evidently, the activity of this protein is modulated by its cellular partner, pRb, which in the hypophosphorylated form, binds to E2F-1 and inactivates its transcriptional ability. In this study, we have demonstrated that expression of a sequence-specific single-stranded DNA binding protein, Pur alpha, in cells decreases the ability of E2F-1 to exert its transcriptional activity upon the responsive promoter derived from DHFR. Results from band shift experiments revealed that while Pur alpha does not recognize the double-stranded DNA fragment containing the E2F-1 binding site, it has the ability to inhibit E2F-1 interaction with its target DNA sequence. Results from GST pull-down assays and the combined immunoprecipitation/Western blot analysis of nuclear extracts revealed a direct association of E2F-1 with Pur alpha in the absence of the DNA molecule containing the E2F-1 binding site. The association of Pur alpha with E2F-1 may increase the stability of E2F-1, as a higher level of E2F-1 was detected in cells coexpressing Pur alpha and E2F-1. The importance of these observations with respect to the role of Pur alpha in the control of cell cycle progression is discussed.
10597287	Molecular interactions between telomerase and the tumor suppressor protein p53 in vitro.	The telomere DNA polymerase (telomerase) and the tumor suppressor protein p53 are frequently associated with human cancers, and activation of telomerase and inactivation of p53 involved in cancer cell immortalization. In this report, we demonstrate a direct interaction of telomerase with p53 in the nuclear lysates of human breast cancer cells, and with recombinant human p53, by affinity chromatography and immunoprecipitation. On activity criteria, the interaction is between the carboxyl-terminal region of p53 and a region close to the amino-terminus of human telomerase-associated protein 1 (hTEP1). Incubation of recombinant p53 with nuclear telomerase extracts results in inhibition of telomerase activity, with the C-terminal region of p53 being essential for inhibition. This effect is not mediated by binding to telomerase substrate DNA, but requires the region near the N-terminus of hTEP1, in that a synthetic peptide derived from this region of hTEP1 similarly inhibits telomerase activity. Together, these in vitro interactions between telomerase and p53 suggest that the activity of telomerase may be regulated by p53, down-regulation of which in turn would favor up-regulation of telomerase activity in cancer cell development.
10600108	Crystal structure of wild-type tryptophan synthase complexed with the natural substrate indole-3-glycerol phosphate.	We used freeze trapping to stabilize the Michaelis complex of wild-type tryptophan synthase and the alpha-subunit substrate indole-3-glycerol phosphate (IGP) and determined its structure to 1. 8 A resolution. In addition, we determined the 1.4 A resolution structure of the complex with indole-3-propanole phosphate (IPP), a noncleavable IGP analogue. The interaction of the 3'-hydroxyl of IGP with the catalytic alphaGlu49 leads to a twisting of the propane chain and to a repositioning of the indole ring compared to IPP. Concomitantly, the catalytic alphaAsp60 rotates resulting in a translocation of the COMM domain [betaGly102-betaGly189, for definition see Schneider et al. (1998) Biochemistry 37, 5394-5406] in a direction opposite to the one in the IPP complex. This results in loss of the allosteric sodium ion bound at the beta-subunit and an opening of the beta-active site, thereby making the cofactor pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) accessible to solvent and thus serine binding. These findings form the structural basis for the information transfer from the alpha- to the beta-subunit and may explain the affinity increase of the beta-active site for serine upon IGP binding.
10601010	Crystal structure of calpain reveals the structural basis for Ca(2+)-dependent protease activity and a novel mode of enzyme activation.	The combination of thiol protease activity and calmodulin-like EF-hands is a feature unique to the calpains. The regulatory mechanisms governing calpain activity are complex, and the nature of the Ca(2+)-induced switch between inactive and active forms has remained elusive in the absence of structural information. We describe here the 2.6 A crystal structure of m-calpain in the Ca(2+)-free form, which illustrates the structural basis for the inactivity of calpain in the absence of Ca(2+). It also reveals an unusual thiol protease fold, which is associated with Ca(2+)-binding domains through heterodimerization and a C(2)-like beta-sandwich domain. Strikingly, the structure shows that the catalytic triad is not assembled, indicating that Ca(2+)-binding must induce conformational changes that re-orient the protease domains to form a functional active site. The alpha-helical N-terminal anchor of the catalytic subunit does not occupy the active site but inhibits its assembly and regulates Ca(2+)-sensitivity through association with the regulatory subunit. This Ca(2+)-dependent activation mechanism is clearly distinct from those of classical proteases.
10601211	Genetic and functional analyses of the conserved C-terminal core domain of Escherichia coli FtsZ.	In Escherichia coli, FtsZ is required for the recruitment of the essential cell division proteins FtsA and ZipA to the septal ring. Several C-terminal deletions of E. coli FtsZ, including one of only 12 amino acids that removes the highly conserved C-terminal core domain, failed to complement chromosomal ftsZ mutants when expressed on a plasmid. To identify key individual residues within the core domain, six highly conserved residues were replaced with alanines. All but one of these mutants (D373A) failed to complement an ftsZ chromosomal mutant. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that whereas I374A and F377A proteins were unstable in the cell, L372A, D373A, P375A, and L378A proteins were synthesized at normal levels, suggesting that they were specifically defective in some aspect of FtsZ function. In addition, all four of the stable mutant proteins were able to localize and form rings at potential division sites in chromosomal ftsZ mutants, implying a defect in a function other than localization and multimerization. Because another proposed function of FtsZ is the recruitment of FtsA and ZipA, we tested whether the C-terminal core domain was important for interactions with these proteins. Using two different in vivo assays, we found that the 12-amino-acid truncation of FtsZ was defective in binding to FtsA. Furthermore, two point mutants in this region (L372A and P375A) showed weakened binding to FtsA. In contrast, ZipA was capable of binding to all four stable point mutants in the FtsZ C-terminal core but not to the 12-amino-acid deletion.
10601333	Gemin3: A novel DEAD box protein that interacts with SMN, the spinal muscular atrophy gene product, and is a component of gems.	The survival of motor neurons (SMN) gene is the disease gene of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a common motor neuron degenerative disease. The SMN protein is part of a complex containing several proteins, of which one, SIP1 (SMN interacting protein 1), has been characterized so far. The SMN complex is found in both the cytoplasm and in the nucleus, where it is concentrated in bodies called gems. In the cytoplasm, SMN and SIP1 interact with the Sm core proteins of spliceosomal small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), and they play a critical role in snRNP assembly. In the nucleus, SMN is required for pre-mRNA splicing, likely by serving in the regeneration of snRNPs. Here, we report the identification of another component of the SMN complex, a novel DEAD box putative RNA helicase, named Gemin3. Gemin3 interacts directly with SMN, as well as with SmB, SmD2, and SmD3. Immunolocalization studies using mAbs to Gemin3 show that it colocalizes with SMN in gems. Gemin3 binds SMN via its unique COOH-terminal domain, and SMN mutations found in some SMA patients strongly reduce this interaction. The presence of a DEAD box motif in Gemin3 suggests that it may provide the catalytic activity that plays a critical role in the function of the SMN complex on RNPs.
10601346	Direct binding of three tight junction-associated MAGUKs, ZO-1, ZO-2, and ZO-3, with the COOH termini of claudins.	ZO-1, ZO-2, and ZO-3, which contain three PDZ domains (PDZ1 to -3), are concentrated at tight junctions (TJs) in epithelial cells. TJ strands are mainly composed of two distinct types of four-transmembrane proteins, occludin, and claudins, between which occludin was reported to directly bind to ZO-1/ZO-2/ZO-3. However, in occludin-deficient intestinal epithelial cells, ZO-1/ZO-2/ZO-3 were still recruited to TJs. We then examined the possible interactions between ZO-1/ZO-2/ZO-3 and claudins. ZO-1, ZO-2, and ZO-3 bound to the COOH-terminal YV sequence of claudin-1 to -8 through their PDZ1 domains in vitro. Then, claudin-1 or -2 was transfected into L fibroblasts, which express ZO-1 but not ZO-2 or ZO-3. Claudin-1 and -2 were concentrated at cell-cell borders in an elaborate network pattern, to which endogenous ZO-1 was recruited. When ZO-2 or ZO-3 were further transfected, both were recruited to the claudin-based networks together with endogenous ZO-1. Detailed analyses showed that ZO-2 and ZO-3 are recruited to the claudin-based networks through PDZ2 (ZO-2 or ZO-3)/PDZ2 (endogenous ZO-1) and PDZ1 (ZO-2 or ZO-3)/COOH-terminal YV (claudins) interactions. In good agreement, PDZ1 and PDZ2 domains of ZO-1/ZO-2/ZO-3 were also recruited to claudin-based TJs, when introduced into cultured epithelial cells. The possible molecular architecture of TJ plaque structures is discussed.
10604478	The TOR signalling pathway controls nuclear localization of nutrient-regulated transcription factors.	The rapamycin-sensitive TOR signalling pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae activates a cell-growth program in response to nutrients such as nitrogen and carbon. The TOR1 and TOR2 kinases (TOR) control cytoplasmic protein synthesis and degradation through the conserved TAP42 protein. Upon phosphorylation by TOR, TAP42 binds and possibly inhibits type 2A and type-2A-related phosphatases; however, the mechanism by which TOR controls nuclear events such as global repression of starvation-specific transcription is unknown. Here we show that TOR prevents transcription of genes expressed upon nitrogen limitation by promoting the association of the GATA transcription factor GLN3 with the cytoplasmic protein URE2. The binding of GLN3 to URE2 requires TOR-dependent phosphorylation of GLN3. Phosphorylation and cytoplasmic retention of GLN3 are also dependent on the TOR effector TAP42, and are antagonized by the type-2A-related phosphatase SIT4. TOR inhibits expression of carbon-source-regulated genes by stimulating the binding of the transcriptional activators MSN2 and MSN4 to the cytoplasmic 14-3-3 protein BMH2. Thus, the TOR signalling pathway broadly controls nutrient metabolism by sequestering several transcription factors in the cytoplasm.
10607564	Novel mode of ligand binding by the SH2 domain of the human XLP disease gene product SAP/SH2D1A.	BACKGROUND: The Src homology 2 (SH2) domains of cytoplasmic signaling proteins generally bind phosphotyrosine (pTyr) sites in the context of carboxy-terminal residues. SAP (also known as SH2D1A or DSHP), the product of the gene that is mutated in human X-linked lymphoproliferative (XLP) disease, comprises almost exclusively a single SH2 domain, which may modulate T-cell signaling by engaging T-cell co-activators such as SLAM, thereby blocking binding of other signaling proteins that contain SH2 domains. The SAP-SLAM interaction can occur in a phosphorylation-independent manner. RESULTS: To characterize the interaction between SAP and SLAM, we synthesized peptides corresponding to the SAP-binding site at residue Y281 in SLAM. Both phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated versions of an 11-residue SLAM peptide bound SAP, with dissociation constants of 150 nM and 330 nM, respectively. SLAM phosphopeptides that were truncated either at the amino or carboxyl terminus bound with high affinity to SAP, suggesting that the SAP SH2 domain recognizes both amino-terminal and carboxy-terminal sequences relative to the pTyr residue. These results were confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) studies on (15)N- and (13)C-labeled SAP complexed with three SLAM peptides: an amino-terminally truncated phosphopeptide, a carboxy-terminally truncated phosphopeptide and a non-phosphorylated Tyr-containing full-length peptide. CONCLUSIONS: The SAP SH2 domain has a unique specificity. Not only does it bind peptides in a phosphorylation-independent manner, it also recognizes a pTyr residue either preceded by amino-terminal residues or followed by carboxy-terminal residues. We propose that the three 'prongs' of a peptide ligand (the amino and carboxyl termini and the pTyr) can engage the SAP SH2 domain, accounting for its unusual properties. These data point to the flexibility of modular protein-interaction domains.
10608854	IQGAP1 and calmodulin modulate E-cadherin function.	Ca(2+)-dependent cell-cell adhesion is mediated by the cadherin family of transmembrane proteins. Adhesion is achieved by homophilic interaction of the extracellular domains of cadherins on adjacent cells, with the cytoplasmic regions serving to couple the complex to the cytoskeleton. IQGAP1, a novel RasGAP-related protein that interacts with the cytoskeleton, binds to actin, members of the Rho family, and E-cadherin. Calmodulin binds to IQGAP1 and regulates its association with Cdc42 and actin. Here we demonstrate competition between calmodulin and E-cadherin for binding to IQGAP1 both in vitro and in a normal cellular milieu. Immunocytochemical analysis in MCF-7 (E-cadherin positive) and MDA-MB-231 (E-cadherin negative) epithelial cells revealed that E-cadherin is required for accumulation of IQGAP1 at cell-cell junctions. The cell-permeable calmodulin antagonist CGS9343B significantly increased IQGAP1 at areas of MCF-7 cell-cell contact, with a concomitant decrease in the amount of E-cadherin at cell-cell junctions. Analysis of E-cadherin function revealed that CGS9343B significantly decreased homophilic E-cadherin adhesion. On the basis of these data, we propose that disruption of the binding of calmodulin to IQGAP1 enhances the association of IQGAP1 with components of the cadherin-catenin complex at cell-cell junctions, resulting in impaired E-cadherin function.
10608892	Stabilization of the MDM2 oncoprotein by interaction with the structurally related MDMX protein.	The MDM2 oncoprotein has transforming potential that can be activated by overexpression, and it represents a critical regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor protein. To identify other factors with a potential role in influencing the expression and/or function of MDM2, we utilized a yeast two-hybrid screening protocol. Here we report that MDM2 physically interacts with a structurally related protein termed MDMX. The results obtained in these studies provide evidence that C-terminal RING finger domains, contained within both of these proteins, play an important role in mediating the association between MDM2 and MDMX. The interaction of these proteins interferes with MDM2 degradation, leading to an increase in the steady-state levels of MDM2. MDMX also inhibits MDM2-mediated p53 degradation, with subsequent accumulation of p53. Taken together, these data indicate that MDMX has the potential to regulate the expression and function of the MDM2 oncoprotein.
10611296	The MinC component of the division site selection system in Escherichia coli interacts with FtsZ to prevent polymerization.	Positioning of the Z ring at the midcell site in Escherichia coli is assured by the min system, which masks polar sites through topological regulation of MinC, an inhibitor of division. To study how MinC inhibits division, we have generated a MalE-MinC fusion that retains full biological activity. We find that MalE-MinC interacts with FtsZ and prevents polymerization without inhibiting FtsZ's GTPase activity. MalE-MinC19 has reduced ability to inhibit division, reduced affinity for FtsZ, and reduced ability to inhibit FtsZ polymerization. These results, along with MinC localization, suggest that MinC rapidly oscillates between the poles of the cell to destabilize FtsZ filaments that have formed before they mature into polar Z rings.
10611475	Thymosin beta(4) serves as a glutaminyl substrate of transglutaminase. Labeling with fluorescent dansylcadaverine does not abolish interaction with G-actin.	Thymosin beta(4) possesses actin-sequestering activity and, like transglutaminases, is supposed to be involved in cellular events like angiogenesis, blood coagulation, apoptosis and wound healing. Thymosin beta(4) serves as a specific glutaminyl substrate for transglutaminase and can be fluorescently labeled with dansylcadaverine. Two (Gln-23 and Gln-36) of the three glutamine residues were mainly involved in the transglutaminase reaction, while the third glutaminyl residue (Gln-39) was derivatized with a low efficiency. Labeled derivatives were able to inhibit polymerization of G-actin and could be cross-linked to G-actin by 1-ethyl-3-[3-(dimethylamino)propyl]carbodiimide. Fluorescently labeled thymosin beta(4) may serve as a useful tool for further investigations in cell biology. Thymosin beta(4) could provide a specific glutaminyl substrate for transglutaminase in vivo, because of the fast reaction observed in vitro occurring at thymosin beta(4) concentrations which are found inside cells. Taking these data together, it is tempting to speculate that thymosin beta(4) may serve as a glutaminyl substrate for transglutaminases in vivo and play an important role in transglutaminase-related processes.
10612399	Proteins of the CNR family are multiple receptors for Reelin.	Layering and positioning of neurons require Reelin- and Src family-associated mammalian Disabled (mDab1). Cadherin-related neuronal receptor (CNR) genes are expressed in neurons of the cortical layer, but not in Cajal-Retzius cells expressing Reelin. This leads us to hypothesize that CNRs bound to Fyn of the Src family are receptors for Reelin. Herein we confirm the association and colocalization of CNR proteins with Reelin. This binding is blocked by CR-50 antibody against Reelin, as well as by monoclonal antibodies produced against CNRs. Both disturb the signaling pathway from Reelin to mDab1 and the positioning of cortical neurons in vitro. These results strongly suggest that the CNR family proteins are multiple Reelin receptors. In addition, differential conservation of the Reelin-binding domain among terrestrial vertebrates may be pertinent to the diversity or complexity of brains.
10618715	Interaction between the HPV-16 E2 transcriptional activator and p53.	The HPV-16 E2 protein is a major regulator of viral DNA replication and gene expression. Through interactions with the viral origin binding protein, E1, it localizes E1 to the origin of replication and stimulates the initiation of viral DNA replication. However, several recent reports have described a number of diverse activities of E2 relating to the induction of apoptosis through both p53 dependent and independent mechanisms, and to induction of growth arrest in both the G1 and G2M phases of the cell cycle. Recent studies have also shown that p53 can specifically inhibit HPV DNA replication, albeit through an unknown mechanism. Since p53 has been described in the replication centres of Herpes Viruses, Adenovirus and SV40 we decided to investigate whether any of the above activities of E2 may be related to an association with p53. We show, in a series of in vitro assays, specific interaction between p53 and HPV-16 E2 via residues in the carboxy terminal half of the E2 protein. Mutational analysis of p53 indicates that sequences in both the DNA binding and oligomerization domains are essential for the interaction, and a mutant of p53 which is unable to bind E2 is also unable to inhibit HPV DNA replication. Finally, using an inducible system of p53 expression we also show that E2 will complex with p53 in vivo. These results raise the intriguing possibility that p53 may also be involved in HPV DNA replication centres, and also provides explanations for some of the diverse activities reported for the HPV E2 proteins.
10619026	The structural basis of Rho effector recognition revealed by the crystal structure of human RhoA complexed with the effector domain of PKN/PRK1.	The small G protein Rho has emerged as a key regulator of cellular events involving cytoskeletal reorganization. Here we report the 2.2 A crystal structure of RhoA bound to an effector domain of protein kinase PKN/PRK1. The structure reveals the antiparallel coiled-coil finger (ACC finger) fold of the effector domain that binds to the Rho specificity-determining regions containing switch I, beta strands B2 and B3, and the C-terminal alpha helix A5, predominantly by specific hydrogen bonds. The ACC finger fold is distinct from those for other small G proteins and provides evidence for the diverse ways of effector recognition. Sequence analysis based on the structure suggests that the ACC finger fold is widespread in Rho effector proteins.
10635326	Maskin is a CPEB-associated factor that transiently interacts with elF-4E.	In Xenopus, the CPE is a bifunctional 3' UTR sequence that maintains maternal mRNA in a dormant state in oocytes and activates polyadenylation-induced translation during oocyte maturation. Here, we report that CPEB, which binds the CPE and stimulates polyadenylation, interacts with a new factor we term maskin. Maskin contains a peptide sequence that is conserved among elF-4E-binding proteins. Affinity chromatography demonstrates that CPEB, maskin, and elF-4E reside in a complex in oocytes, and yeast two-hybrid analyses indicate that CPEB and maskin bind directly, as do maskin and elF-4E. While CPEB and maskin remain together during oocyte maturation, the maskin-elF-4E interaction is substantially reduced. The dissolution of this complex may result in the binding of elF-4E to elF-4G and the translational activation of CPE-containing mRNAs.
10637512	p53/T-antigen complex disruption in T-antigen transformed NIH3T3 fibroblasts exposed to oxidative stress: correlation with the appearance of a Fas/APO-1/CD95 dependent, caspase independent, necrotic pathway.	Simian Virus 40 Large T-antigen expressed in NIH3T3 cells increases p53 level and interacts with this tumor suppressor to form large nuclear complexes. We show here that T-antigen sensitizes NIH3T3 cells to low doses of the oxidative stress inducer menadione. This oxidant increased p53 accumulation and disrupted p53/T-antigen interaction, but not T-antigen/pRb, T-antigen/Hsc70 and p53/Hsc70 complexes; a phenomenon inhibited by the anti-oxidant N-acetyl-cysteine. Analysis of several p53 downstream gene products revealed that the level of Fas receptor, which was sharply reduced by T-antigen expression, was drastically increased in response to menadione treatment. Menadione also induced a T-antigen dependent cleavage of Fas ligand. Analysis performed with Fas receptor antagonist antibody and metalloproteinases inhibitor revealed that menadione triggers a Fas-dependent death of a fraction of T-antigen expressing cells. This Fas pathway does not activate caspase 8 or 3, probably because of the inhibition induced by T-antigen, and leads to a necrotic cell death which contributes at least in part to the hypersensitivity of T-antigen transformed cells to oxidative stress.
1310351	Retinoid X receptor interacts with nuclear receptors in retinoic acid, thyroid hormone and vitamin D3 signalling.	Cellular responsiveness to retinoic acid and its metabolites is conferred through two structurally and pharmacologically distinct families of receptors: the retinoic acid receptors (RAR) and the retinoid X receptors (RXR). Here we report that the transcriptional activity of RAR and RXR can be reciprocally modulated by direct interactions between the two proteins. RAR and RXR have a high degree of cooperativity in binding to target DNA, consistent with previous reports indicating that the binding of either RAR or RXR to their cognate response elements is enhanced by factors present in nuclear extracts. RXR also interacts directly with and enhances the binding of nuclear receptors conferring responsiveness to vitamin D3 and thyroid hormone T3; the DNA-binding activities of these receptors are also stimulated by the presence of nuclear extracts. Together these data indicate that RXR has a central role in multiple hormonal signalling pathways.
1310896	Functional antagonism between c-Jun and MyoD proteins: a direct physical association.	The product of the proto-oncogene Jun inhibits myogenesis. Constitutive expression of Jun in myoblasts interferes with the expression and the function of MyoD protein. In transient transfection assays Jun inhibits transactivation of the MyoD promoter, the muscle creatine kinase enhancer, and a reporter gene linked to MyoD DNA-binding sites. Conversely, MyoD suppresses the transactivation by Jun of genes linked to an AP-1 site. We demonstrate that both in vivo and in vitro MyoD and Jun proteins physically interact. Mutational analysis suggests that this interaction occurs via the leucine zipper domain of Jun and the helix-loop-helix region of MyoD.
1318195	cdc2 family kinases phosphorylate a human cell DNA replication factor, RPA, and activate DNA replication.	RPA is a single-stranded DNA binding protein complex purified from human cells and is essential for the initiation and elongation stages of SV40 DNA replication in vitro. In both human and yeast cells, the 34 kDa polypeptide subunit of RPA is phosphorylated in the S and G2 phases of the cell cycle and not in G1. One of the major RPA kinases present in extracts of human cells was purified and shown to be the cyclin B-cdc2 complex. This purified kinase, and a closely related cyclin A associated cdc2-like kinase, phosphorylated RPA p34 on a subset of the chymotryptic peptides that were phosphorylated in vivo at the G1-S transition. Two serines near the N-terminus of RPA p34 were identified as possible sites of phosphorylation by cdc2 kinase. These same serines were necessary for RPA phosphorylation in vivo. The purified cdc2 kinase stimulated SV40 DNA replication in vitro when added to G1 cell extracts. The kinase also stimulated unwinding at the origin of replication, one of the earliest steps in DNA replication requiring RPA, but only in the presence of an additional factor present in G1 cell extracts. Thus, one or more members of the cyclin-cdc2 kinase family may be required for the initiation and maintenance of S phase, in part due to their ability to phosphorylate and activate a cellular DNA replication factor, RPA.
1321290	Interaction of the human papillomavirus type 16 E6 oncoprotein with wild-type and mutant human p53 proteins.	The E6 oncoproteins encoded by the cancer-associated human papillomaviruses (HPVs) can associate with and promote the degradation of wild-type p53 in vitro. To gain further insight into this process, the ability of HPV-16 E6 to complex with and promote the degradation of mutant forms of p53 was studied. A correlation between binding and the targeted degradation of p53 was established. Mutant p53 proteins that bound HPV-16 E6 were targeted for degradation, whereas those that did not complex HPV-16 E6 were not degraded. Since the HPV-16 E6-promoted degradation involves the ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis pathway, specific mutations were made in the amino terminus of p53 to examine whether the E6 targeted degradation involved the N-end rule pathway. No requirement for destabilizing amino acids at the N terminus of p53 was found, nor was evidence found that HPV-16 E6 could provide this determinant in trans, indicating that the N-terminal rule pathway is not involved in the E6-promoted degradation of p53.
1379745	Identification of a protein that binds to the SH3 region of Abl and is similar to Bcr and GAP-rho.	A Src homology 3 (SH3) region is a sequence of approximately 50 amino acids found in many nonreceptor tyrosine kinases and other proteins. Deletion of the SH3 region from the protein encoded by the c-abl proto-oncogene activates the protein's transforming capacity, thereby suggesting the participation of the SH3 region in the negative regulation of transformation. A complementary DNA was isolated that encoded a protein, 3BP-1, to which the SH3 region of Abl bound with high specificity and to which SH3 regions from other proteins bound differentially. The sequence of the 3BP-1 protein is similar to that of a COOH-terminal segment of Bcr and to guanosine triphosphatase-activating protein (GAP)-rho, which suggests that it might have GAP activity for Ras-related proteins. The 3BP-1 protein may therefore be a mediator of SH3 function in transformation inhibition and may link tyrosine kinases to Ras-related proteins.
1409652	Three-dimensional structure of two crystal forms of FabR19.9 from a monoclonal anti-arsonate antibody.	The three-dimensional structure of FabR19.9 from a well-characterized anti-p-azobenzenearsonate monoclonal antibody has been determined by x-ray diffraction techniques in two crystalline forms (I and II) to a resolution of 2.8 and 2.7 A, respectively. Essentially the same tertiary and quaternary structure of the Fab is observed in the two forms. The major difference resides in the intermolecular contacts, which are interpreted to favor an irreversible transition from the metastable form I to the more stable form II. The third complementarity-determining region of the heavy chain (H3) folds back over the combining site and requires rearrangement for hapten binding. This dynamic requirement on H3 is consistent with its mobility in the structure and can explain hapten binding to an otherwise inaccessible antibody combining site.
1448153	Different length peptides bind to HLA-Aw68 similarly at their ends but bulge out in the middle.	We report here the determination and refinement to 1.9 A resolution by X-ray cryo-crystallography the structure of HLA-Aw68. The averaged image from the collection of bound, endogenous peptides clearly shows the atomic structure at the first three and last two amino acids in the peptides but no connected electron density in between. This suggests that bound peptides, held at both ends, take alternative pathways and could be of different lengths by bulging out in the middle. Peptides eluted from HLA-Aw68 include peptides of 9, 10 and 11 amino acids, a direct indication of the length heterogeneity of tightly bound peptides. Peptide sequencing shows relatively conserved 'anchor' residues at position 2 and the carboxy-terminal residue. Conserved binding sites for the peptide N and C termini at the ends of the class I major histocompatibility complex binding groove are apparently dominant in producing the long half-lives of peptide binding and the peptide-dependent stabilization of the class I molecule's structure.
1512238	Crystal structure of the unactivated form of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase from tobacco refined at 2.0-A resolution.	The structure of the unactivated form of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase was refined at a resolution of 2.0 A to an R-factor of 17.1%. The previous model (Chapman et al., 1988) was extensively rebuilt, and the small subunit was retraced. The refined model consists of residues 22-63 and 69-467 of the large subunit and the complete small subunit. A striking feature of the model is that several loops have very high B-factors, probably representing mobile regions of the molecule. An examination of the intersubunit contacts shows that the L8S8 hexadecamer is composed of four L2 dimers. The dominant contacts between these L2 dimers are formed by the small subunits. This suggests that the small subunits may be essential for maintaining the integrity of the L8S8 structure. The active site shows differences between the unactivated form and the quaternary complex. In particular, Lys334 has moved out of the active site by about 10A. This residue lies on loop 6 of the alpha beta barrel, which is a particularly mobile loop. The site of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase activation is well ordered in the absence of the carbamylation of Lys201 and Mg2+ binding. The residues are held poised by a network of hydrogen bonds. In the unactivated state, the active site is accessible to substrate binding.
1522589	Crystal structure of a chimeric Fab' fragment of an antibody binding tumour cells.	The crystal structure of a chimeric Fab' fragment of a monoclonal antibody is presented. The Fab' comprises the murine light chain and heavy chain variable domains of the carcinoma-binding antibody B72.3 fused to the constant domain of human kappa, and the first constant domain and hinge domain of human gamma 4, respectively. A model for the Fab' has been determined by molecular replacement and refined to a resolution of 3.1 A with an R-factor of 17.6%. The additional residues that distinguish a Fab' from a Fab fragment are seen to be disordered in the crystals. The H3 hypervariable loop is short and adopts a sharp hairpin turn in a conformation that results from an interaction between the lysine side-chain of H93 and the main-chain carbonyl group of H96. The remaining hypervariable loops display conformations similar to those predicted from the canonical structures approach, although loop H2 is apparently displaced by a salt-bridge formed between H55 Asp and the neighbouring H73 Lys. These and other features of the structure likely to be important in grafting the hypervariable loops to an otherwise human framework are discussed.
1522902	Structure of the pancreatic lipase-procolipase complex.	Interfacial adsorption of pancreatic lipase is strongly dependent on the physical chemical properties of the lipid surface. These properties are affected by amphiphiles such as phospholipids and bile salts. In the presence of such amphiphiles, lipase binding to the interface requires a protein cofactor, colipase. We obtained crystals of the pancreatic lipase-procolipase complex and solved the structure at 3.04 A resolution. Here we describe the structure of procolipase, which essentially consists of three 'fingers' and is topologically comparable to snake toxins. The tips of the fingers contain most of the hydrophobic amino acids and presumably form the interfacial binding site. Lipase binding occurs at the opposite side to this site and involves polar interactions. Determination of the three-dimensional structure of pancreatic lipase has revealed the presence of two domains: an amino-terminal domain, at residues 1-336 containing the active site and a carboxy-terminal domain at residues 337-449 (ref. 6). Procolipase binds exclusively to the C-terminal domain of lipase. No conformational change in the lipase molecule is induced by the binding of procolipase.
1558161	Acidosis inhibits osteoblastic and stimulates osteoclastic activity in vitro.	Metabolic acidosis induces net calcium flux (JCa) from cultured neonatal mouse calvariae through physicochemical and cell-mediated mechanisms. To determine the role of osteoblasts in acid-induced JCa, collagen synthesis and alkaline phosphatase activity were assessed in calvariae incubated in reduced pH and bicarbonate medium, a model of metabolic acidosis (Met), and compared with controls (Ctl). Collagen synthesis fell from 30.5 +/- 1.1 in Ctl to 25.1 +/- 0.4% with Met, and alkaline phosphatase decreased from 403 +/- 25 in Ctl to 298 +/- 21 nmol Pi.min-1.mg protein-1 with Met. During acidosis JCa was correlated inversely with percent collagen synthesis (r = -0.743, n = 11, P = 0.009) and with alkaline phosphatase activity (r = -0.453, n = 22, P = 0.034). To determine the role of osteoclasts in acid-induced JCa, osteoclastic beta-glucuronidase activity was determined in Ctl and Met in the absence or presence of the osteoclastic inhibitor calcitonin (CT, 3 x 10(-9) M). Met increased beta-glucuronidase (5.9 +/- 0.2) compared with Ctl (4.6 +/- 0.3 micrograms phenolphthalein released.bone-1.h-1), whereas CT inhibited beta-glucuronidase in both Ctl and Met (3.1 +/- 0.2 and 3.5 +/- 0.3, respectively). During acidosis JCa was correlated directly with beta-glucuronidase activity (r = 0.683, n = 42, P less than 0.001). Thus the cell-mediated component of JCa during acidosis in vitro appears to result from a combination of inhibited osteoblastic and stimulated osteoclastic activity.
1565647	The DnaK chaperone modulates the heat shock response of Escherichia coli by binding to the sigma 32 transcription factor.	The heat shock response and the heat shock proteins have been conserved across evolution. In Escherichia coli, the heat shock response is positively regulated by the sigma 32 transcriptional factor and negatively regulated by a subset of the heat shock proteins themselves. In an effort to understand the regulation of the heat shock response, we have purified the sigma 32 polypeptide to homogeneity. During the purification procedure, we found that a large fraction of the overexpressed sigma 32 polypeptide copurified with the universally conserved DnaK heat shock protein (the prokaryotic equivalent of the 70-kDa heat shock protein, HSP70). Further experiments established that purified sigma 32 bound to DnaK and that this complex was disrupted in the presence of ATP. Consistent with the fact that dnaK756 mutant bacteria overexpress heat shock proteins at all temperatures, purified DnaK756 mutant protein did not appreciably bind to sigma 32.
1583684	Crystal and molecular structure of the bovine alpha-chymotrypsin-eglin c complex at 2.0 A resolution.	The crystal structure of the complex between bovine alpha-chymotrypsin and the leech (Hirudo medicinalis) protein proteinase inhibitor eglin c has been refined at 2.0 A resolution to a crystallographic R-factor of 0.167. The structure of the complex includes 2290 protein and 143 solvent atoms. Eglin c is bound to the cognate enzyme through interactions involving 11 residues of the inhibitor (sites P5-P4' in the reactive site loop, P10' and P23') and 17 residues from chymotrypsin. Binding of eglin c to the enzyme causes a contained hinge-bending movement around residues P4 and P4' of the inhibitor. The tertiary structure of chymotrypsin is little affected, with the exception of the 10-13 region, where an ordered structure for the polypeptide chain is observed. The overall binding mode is consistent with those found in other serine proteinase-protein-inhibitor complexes, including those from different inhibition families. Contained, but significant differences are observed in the establishment of intramolecular hydrogen bonds and polar interactions stabilizing the structure of the intact inhibitor, if the structure of eglin c in its complex with chymotrypsin is compared with that of other eglin c-serine proteinase complexes.
1584773	Crystal structure of an engineered subtilisin inhibitor complexed with bovine trypsin.	Proteinase specificity of a proteinaceous inhibitor of subtilisin (SSI; Streptomyces subtilisin inhibitor) can be altered so as to strongly inhibit trypsin simply by replacing P1 methionine with lysine (with or without concomitant change of the P4 residue) through site-directed mutagenesis. Now the crystal structure of one such engineered SSI (P1 methionine converted to lysine and P4 methionine converted to glycine) complexed with bovine trypsin has been solved at 2.6 A resolution and refined to a crystallographic R factor of 0.173. Comparing this structure with the previously established structure of the native SSI complexed with subtilisin BPN', it was found that (i) P1 lysine of the mutant SSI is accommodated in the S1 pocket of trypsin as usual, and (ii) upon complex formation, considerable conformation change occurs to the reactive site loop of the mutant SSI. Thus, in this case, flexibility of the reactive site loop seems important for successfully changing the proteinase specificity through mere replacement of the P1 residue.
1585175	Solution structure of a calmodulin-target peptide complex by multidimensional NMR.	The three-dimensional solution structure of the complex between calcium-bound calmodulin (Ca(2+)-CaM) and a 26-residue synthetic peptide comprising the CaM binding domain (residues 577 to 602) of skeletal muscle myosin light chain kinase, has been determined using multidimensional heteronuclear filtered and separated nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The two domains of CaM (residues 6 to 73 and 83 to 146) remain essentially unchanged upon complexation. The long central helix (residues 65 to 93), however, which connects the two domains in the crystal structure of Ca(2+)-CaM, is disrupted into two helices connected by a long flexible loop (residues 74 to 82), thereby enabling the two domains to clamp residues 3 to 21 of the bound peptide, which adopt a helical conformation. The overall structure of the complex is globular, approximating an ellipsoid of dimensions 47 by 32 by 30 angstroms. The helical peptide is located in a hydrophobic channel that passes through the center of the ellipsoid at an angle of approximately 45 degrees with its long axis. The complex is mainly stabilized by hydrophobic interactions which, from the CaM side, involve an unusually large number of methionines. Key residues of the peptide are Trp4 and Phe17, which serve to anchor the amino- and carboxyl-terminal halves of the peptide to the carboxyl- and amino-terminal domains of CaM, respectively. Sequence comparisons indicate that a number of peptides that bind CaM with high affinity share this common feature containing either aromatic residues or long-chain hydrophobic ones separated by a stretch of 12 residues, suggesting that they interact with CaM in a similar manner.
1631061	Protein interaction cloning in yeast: identification of mammalian proteins that react with the leucine zipper of Jun.	To identify proteins that interact with Jun or Fos we have used the protein interaction cloning system developed by S. Fields and O.-K. Song [(1989) Nature (London) 340, 245-246] to clone mammalian cDNAs encoding polypeptides that interact with the dimerization and DNA-binding motif (bZIP; basic domain leucine zipper motif) of Jun. For this purpose, yeast cells lacking GAL4 activity but expressing a GAL4 DNA-binding domain-Jun bZIP fusion protein were transformed with a mouse embryo cDNA plasmid library in which the cDNA was joined to a gene segment encoding the GAL4 transcriptional activation domain. Several transformants exhibiting GAL4 activity were identified and shown to harbor plasmids encoding polypeptides predicted to form coiled-coil structures with Jun and/or Fos. One of these is a bZIP protein of the ATF/CREB protein family--probably the murine homolog of TAXREB67. Two others encode polypeptides with predicted potential to form coiled-coil structures, and seven other isolates encode segments of alpha- or beta-tropomyosin, classical coiled-coil proteins. The tropomyosin polypeptides were found to interact in the yeast assay system with the bZIP region of Jun but not with the bZIP region of Fos. Our results illustrate the range of protein interaction cloning for discovering proteins that bind to a given target polypeptide.
1713710	Recognition of a cell-surface oligosaccharide of pathogenic Salmonella by an antibody Fab fragment.	The 2.05 angstrom (A) resolution crystal structure of a dodecasaccharide-Fab complex revealed an unusual carbohydrate recognition site, defined by aromatic amino acids and a structured water molecule, rather than the carboxylic acid and amide side chains and a structured water molecule, rather than the carboxylic acid and amide side chains that are features of transport and other carbohydrate binding proteins. A trisaccharide epitope of a branched bacterial lipopolysaccharide fills this hydrophobic pocket (8 A deep by 7 A wide) in an entropy-assisted association (association constant = 2.05 x 10(5) liters per mole, enthalpy = -20.5 +/- 1.7 kilojoules per mole, and temperature times entropy = +10.0 +/- 2.9 kilojoules per mole). The requirement for the complementarity of van der Waals surfaces and the requirements of saccharide-saccharide and protein-saccharide hydrogen-bonding networks determine the antigen conformation adopted in the bound state.
1749770	An autoantibody to single-stranded DNA: comparison of the three-dimensional structures of the unliganded Fab and a deoxynucleotide-Fab complex.	Crystal structures of the Fabs from an autoantibody (BV04-01) with specificity for single-stranded DNA have been determined in the presence and absence of a trinucleotide of deoxythymidylic acid, d(pT)3. Formation of the ligand-protein complex was accompanied by small adjustments in the orientations of the variable (VL and VH) domains. In addition, there were local conformational changes in the first hypervariable loop of the light chain and the third hypervariable loop of the heavy chain, which together with the domain shifts led to an improvement in the complementarity of nucleotide and Fab. The sugar-phosphate chain adopted an extended and "open" conformation, with the base, sugar, and phosphate components available for interactions with the protein. Nucleotide 1 (5'-end) was associated exclusively with the heavy chain, nucleotide 2 was shared by both heavy and light chains, and nucleotide 3 was bound by the light chain. The orientation of phosphate 1 was stabilized by hydrogen bonds with serine H52a and asparagine H53. Phosphate 2 formed an ion pair with arginine H52, but no other charge-charge interactions were observed. Insertion of the side chain of histidine L27d between nucleotides 2 and 3 resulted in a bend in the sugar-phosphate chain. The most dominant contacts with the protein involved the central thymine base, which was immobilized by cooperative stacking and hydrogen bonding interactions. This base was intercalated between a tryptophan ring (no. H100a) from the heavy chain and a tyrosine ring (no. L32) from the light chain. The resulting orientation of thymine was favorable for the simultaneous formation of two hydrogen bonds with the backbone carbonyl oxygen and the side chain hydroxyl group of serine L91 (the thymine atoms were the hydrogen on nitrogen 3 and keto oxygen 4).
1793542	Complex between the subtilisin from a mesophilic bacterium and the leech inhibitor eglin-C.	The alkaline proteinase from the mesophilic bacterium Bacillus mesentericus has been crystallized in a 1:1 complex with the inhibitor eglin-C from the medical leech. The crystals have cell dimensions of a = 43.0, b = 71.9, c = 48.3 A and beta = 110.0 degrees and are in the space group P2(1). Three-dimensional data to 2.0 A have been recorded on film from a single crystal. The orientation and position of the complex in the unit cell have been established using the refined coordinates of subtilisin Carlsberg and of eglin-C as independent models. The structure of the complex has been refined by restrained least-squares minimization. The crystallographic R factor (= sigma[magnitude of Fo - magnitude of Fc[/sigma magnitude of Fo) is 15.1% including two Ca2+ ions and 312 water molecules. The structure is discussed in terms of its physicochemical properties in solution and its relation to other Bacillus subtilisins.
1870127	Three-dimensional structure of the complexes between bovine chymotrypsinogen A and two recombinant variants of human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (Kazal-type).	Variants of the human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (PSTI) have been created during a protein design project to generate a high-affinity inhibitor with respect to some serine proteases other than trypsin. Two modified versions of human PSTI with high affinity for chymotrypsin were crystallized as a complex with chymotrypsinogen. Both crystallize isomorphously in space group P4(1)2(1)2 with lattice constants a = 84.4 A, c = 86.7 A and diffract to 2.3 A resolution. The structure was solved by molecular replacement. The final R-value after refinement with 8.0 to 2.3 A resolution data was 19.5% for both complexes after inclusion of about 50 bound water molecules. The overall three-dimensional structure of PSTI is similar to the structure of porcine PSTI in the trypsinogen complex (1TGS). Small differences in the relative orientation of the binding loop and the core of the inhibitors indicate flexible adaptation to the proteases. The chymotrypsinogen part of the complex is similar to chymotrypsin. After refolding induced by binding of the inhibitor the root-mean-square difference of the active site residues A186 to A195 and A217 to A222 compared to chymotrypsin was 0.26 A.
1891457	Molecular recognition at the active site of subtilisin BPN': crystallographic studies using genetically engineered proteinaceous inhibitor SSI (Streptomyces subtilisin inhibitor).	Unlike trypsin-like serine proteases having only one conspicuous binding pocket in the active site, subtilisin BPN' has two such pockets, the S1 and S4 pockets, which accommodate the P1 and P4 residues of ligands (after Schechter and Berger notation) respectively. Using computer graphics, the geometrical nature of the two pockets was carefully examined and strategies for site-directed mutagenesis studies were set up against a protein SSI (Streptomyces subtilisin inhibitor), which is a strong proteinaceous inhibitor (or a substrate analogue) of subtilisin BPN'. It was decided to convert the P1 residue, methionine 73, into lysine (M73K) with or without additional conversion of the P4 residue, methionine 70, into glycine (M70G). The crystal structures of the two complexes of subtilisin BPN', one with the single mutant SSI (M73K) and the other with the double mutant SSI (M73K, M70G) were solved showing that (i) small 'electrostatic induced-fit movement' occurs in the S1 pocket upon introducing the terminal plus charge of the lysine side chain, and (ii) large 'mechanical induced-fit movement' occurs in the S4 pocket upon reducing the size of the P4 side chain from methionine to glycine. In both (i) and (ii), the induced-fit movement occurred in a concerted fashion involving both the enzyme and 'substrate' amino acid residues. The term 'substrate-assisted stabilization' was coined to stress the cooperative nature of the induced-fit movements.
1992167	Refined crystal structures of subtilisin novo in complex with wild-type and two mutant eglins. Comparison with other serine proteinase inhibitor complexes.	The crystal structures of the complexes formed between subtilisin Novo and three inhibitors, eglin c, Arg45-eglin c and Lys53-eglin c have been determined using molecular replacement and difference Fourier techniques and refined at 2.4 A, 2.1 A, and 2.4 A resolution, respectively. The mutants Arg45-eglin c and Lys53-eglin c were constructed by site-directed mutagenesis in order to investigate the inhibitory specificity and stability of eglin c. Arg45-eglin became a potent trypsin inhibitor, in contrast to native eglin, which is an elastase inhibitor. This specificity change was rationalized by comparing the structures of Arg45-eglin and basic pancreatic trypsin inhibitor and their interactions with trypsin. The residue Arg53, which participates in a complex network of hydrogen bonds formed between the core and the binding loop of eglin c, was replaced with the shorter basic amino acid lysine in the mutant Lys53-eglin. Two hydrogen bonds with Thr44, located in the binding loop, can no longer be formed but are partially restored by a water molecule bound in the vicinity of Lys53. Eglin c in complexes with both subtilisin Novo and subtilisin Carlsberg was crystallized in two different space groups. Comparison of the complexes showed a rigid body rotation for the eglin c core of 11.5 degrees with respect to the enzyme, probably caused by different intermolecular contacts in both crystal forms.
2040602	Inactivation of DNA polymerase beta by in vitro phosphorylation with protein kinase C.	The Mr = 38,300 polypeptide of the purified recombinant rat DNA polymerase beta served as an excellent substrate for protein kinase C (PKC) in vitro but not for the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. The phosphorylation by PKC resulted in inactivation of DNA polymerase beta activity, and recovery was achieved by dephosphorylation with alkaline phosphatase. Since the phosphorylated DNA polymerase beta was retained with use of a single-stranded DNA-cellulose column, inactivation might occur at a site different from that for the DNA binding. Amino acid sequence analysis of the phosphopeptides revealed that the phosphorylated sites were 2 serine residues at positions 44 and 55 from the NH2 terminus, either or both of which might be involved in the catalytic activity of DNA polymerase beta. Thus, the inactivation of the DNA repair enzyme, DNA polymerase beta, by PKC may be an important process in the modification of DNA metabolism in the nucleus through signal transduction processes.
2040612	Interaction of vitamin K-dependent protein Z with thrombin. Consequences for the amidolytic activity of thrombin and the interaction of thrombin with phospholipid vesicles.	Protein Z is a vitamin K-dependent protein of unknown function present in normal bovine plasma at a concentration of approximately 0.1 microM. Quantitative affinity chromatographic studies using diisopropylphosphoryl (DIP)-thrombin-Affi-Gel 10 as the affinity matrix and free DIP-thrombin as the competitor demonstrated that protein Z interacts with DIP-thrombin with a dissociation constant of 0.15 +/- 0.05 microM. Binding was independent of Ca2+. Protein C and factor IX, other vitamin K-dependent clotting proteins with the same domain structure as that of protein Z, did not interact with immobilized DIP-thrombin under these conditions; and factor X interacted with an affinity 20-fold lower than that for protein Z. The Michaelis constant, Km, for hydrolysis of pyro-Glu-Pro-Arg-p-nitroanilide by thrombin was increased 1.8-fold, from 130 to 230 microM, as a result of the binding of protein Z and the Km for H-Val-Leu-Arg-p-nitroanilide 1.4-fold, from 390 to 560 microM. From these kinetic studies, a dissociation constant of 0.11 +/- 0.04 microM was calculated for the binding of protein Z to alpha-thrombin. Protein Z bound to large phospholipid vesicles (25% phosphatidylserine, 75% phosphatidylcholine) with a dissociation constant of 0.39 +/- 0.16 microM at a phospholipid to protein ratio of 82 mol of phospholipid/mol of protein Z at saturation. In the presence of protein Z thrombin associated with phospholipid vesicles, whereas thrombin did not interact with phospholipid vesicles in the absence of protein Z. These studies, therefore, demonstrate a physiologically relevant interaction between protein Z and thrombin. They also suggest a mechanism whereby thrombin is localized to an injury site by virtue of its interaction with protein Z bound to phospholipid surfaces.
2108322	Three-dimensional structure of a hybrid light chain dimer: protein engineering of a binding cavity.	An attempt was made to engineer a binding site and check its structure by X-ray analysis. Two human light chains (Mcg and Weir), with "variable" domain sequences differing in 36 positions, were hybridized into a heterologous dimer and crystallized in ammonium sulfate by the same procedure used for the trigonal form of the Mcg dimer. The three-dimensional structure of the hybrid was determined at 3.5-A resolution by difference Fourier analysis, interactive model building with computer graphics and crystallographic refinement. In the heterologous dimer, the Weir protein behaved as the structural analog of the heavy chain in an antigen binding fragment, while the Mcg protein assumed the role of the light chain component. The hybrid and the Mcg dimer were closely similar in overall structure, an observation probably correlated with the deliberate cleavage of the intrachain disulfide bond in the variable domain of the Weir protein during the hybridization procedure. Examination of the crystal structure of the hybrid suggested that the cleavage resulted in the relaxation of restraints which might otherwise have interfered with the formation of an Mcg-like dimer. There were six substitutions among the residues lining the binding cavities of the hybrid and Mcg dimer. These substitutions significantly affected the sizes, shapes and binding properties of the two cavities.
2157286	Association of human papillomavirus types 16 and 18 E6 proteins with p53.	Human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) is a DNA tumor virus that is associated with human anogenital cancers and encodes two transforming proteins, E6 and E7. The E7 protein has been shown to bind to the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene product, pRB. This study shows that the E6 protein of HPV-16 is capable of binding to the cellular p53 protein. The ability of the E6 proteins from different human papillomaviruses to form complexes with p53 was assayed and found to correlate with the in vivo clinical behavior and the in vitro transforming activity of these different papillomaviruses. The wild-type p53 protein has tumor suppressor properties and has also been found in association with large T antigen and the E1B 55-kilodalton protein in cells transformed by SV40 and by adenovirus type 5, respectively, providing further evidence that the human papillomaviruses, the adenoviruses, and SV40 may effect similar cellular pathways in transformation.
2211726	Protein-protein interactions between adenovirus DNA polymerase and nuclear factor I mediate formation of the DNA replication preinitiation complex.	The in vitro adenovirus (Ad) DNA replication system provides an assay to study the interaction of viral and host replication proteins with the DNA template in the formation of the preinitiation complex. This initiation system requires in addition to the origin DNA sequences 1) Ad DNA polymerase (Pol), 2) Ad preterminal protein (pTP), the covalent acceptor for protein-primed DNA replication, and 3) nuclear factor I (NFI), a host cell protein identical to the CCAAT box-binding transcription factor. The interactions of these proteins were studied by coimmunoprecipitation and Ad origin DNA binding assays. The Ad Pol can bind to origin sequences only in the presence of another protein which can be either pTP or NFI. While NFI alone can bind to its origin recognition sequence, pTP does not specifically recognize DNA unless Ad Pol is present. Thus, protein-protein interactions are necessary for the targetting of either Ad Pol or pTP to the preinitiation complex. DNA footprinting demonstrated that the Ad DNA site recognized by the pTP.Pol complex was within the first 18 bases at the end of the template which constitutes the minimal origin of replication. Mutagenesis studies have defined the Ad Pol interaction site on NFI between amino acids 68-150, which overlaps the DNA binding and replication activation domain of this factor. A putative zinc finger on the Ad Pol has been mutated to a product that fails to bind the Ad origin sequences but still interacts with pTP. These results indicate that both protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions mediate specific recognition of the replication origin by Ad DNA polymerase.
2347312	The refined 2.4 A X-ray crystal structure of recombinant human stefin B in complex with the cysteine proteinase papain: a novel type of proteinase inhibitor interaction.	A stoichiometric complex of human stefin B and carboxymethylated papain has been crystallized in a trigonal crystal form. Data to 2.37 A resolution were collected using the area detector diffractometer FAST. The crystal structure of the complex has been solved by Patterson search techniques using papain as search model. Starting from the structure of chicken cystatin, the stefin structure was elucidated through cycles of model building and crystallographic refinement. The current crystallographic R factor is 0.19. Like cystatin, the stefin molecule consists of a five stranded beta-sheet wrapped around a five turn alpha-helix, but with an additional carboxy terminal strand running along the convex side of the sheet. Topological equivalence of stefin and cystatin reveal the previous sequence alignment to be incorrect in part, through deletion of the intermediate helix. The conserved residues form a tripartite wedge, which slots into the papain active site as proposed through consideration of the tertiary structures of the individual components (Bode et al., 1988). The main interactions are provided by the amino terminal 'trunk' (occupying the 'unprimed' subsites of the enzyme), and by the first hairpin loop, containing the highly conserved QVVAG sequence, with minor contributions from the second hairpin loop. The carboxyl terminus of stefin provides an additional interaction region with respect to cystatin. The interaction is dominated by hydrophobic contacts. Inhibition by the cysteine proteinase inhibitors is fundamentally different to that observed for the serine proteinase inhibitors.
2395459	Atomic structure of the actin:DNase I complex.	The atomic models of the complex between rabbit skeletal muscle actin and bovine pancreatic deoxyribonuclease I both in the ATP and ADP forms have been determined by X-ray analysis at an effective resolution of 2.8 A and 3A, respectively. The two structures are very similar. The actin molecule consists of two domains which can be further subdivided into two subdomains. ADP or ATP is located in the cleft between the domains with a calcium ion bound to the beta- or beta- and gamma-phosphates, respectively. The motif of a five-stranded beta sheet consisting of a beta meander and a right handed beta alpha beta unit appears in each domain suggesting that gene duplication might have occurred. These sheets have the same topology as that found in hexokinase.
2466831	Identification of alpha 2-macroglobulin as a cytokine binding plasma protein. Binding of interleukin-1 beta to "F" alpha 2-macroglobulin.	Treatment of normal human plasma with methylamine resulted in the discovery of an interleukin-1 beta(IL-1 beta) binding protein. The protein was labeled with 125I-IL-1 beta and the relative molecular mass (Mr) determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The protein-IL-1 beta complex had a Mr of approximately 400,000 in non-reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis but became dissociated when exposed to beta-mercaptoethanol. The 125I-IL-1 beta labeled protein complex could be immunoprecipitated from plasma by using an anti-alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2M) antiserum. Similarly, a monoclonal antibody (mAb) specific for electrophoretically fast ("F")alpha 2M was able to adsorb the 125I-IL-1 beta labeled complex from plasma. The mAb was also capable of adsorbing "F" alpha 2M-125I-IL-1 beta complexes from binary reaction mixtures, but failed to adsorb free 125I-IL-1 beta. Experiments carried out with purified plasma alpha 2M established that IL-1 beta became bound to alpha 2M only upon reaction with trypsin or methylamine, which results in the appearance of free thiol groups in alpha 2M ("F" alpha 2M). There was no binding of IL-1 beta to the native form of alpha 2M (electrophoretically slow or "S" alpha 2M), which lacks free thiol groups. Pretreatment of "F" alpha 2M with N-ethylmaleimide or [ethylenebis(oxyethylenenitrilo)] tetraacetic acid prevented complex formation between "F" alpha 2M and IL-1 beta. In contrast, the yield of "F" alpha 2M IL-1 beta complex formation was increased severalfold in the presence of 2.5 mM Zn2+. These findings indicate that "F" alpha 2M interacts with IL-1 beta through a thiol-disulfide exchange reaction. Zn2+ may play a major role in bringing together the reactive domains of the adjoining peptide backbones into proper orientation. The ready complex formation between "F" alpha 2M and the pleiotropic cytokine IL-1 beta suggests a novel biological role for "F" alpha 2M, since "F" alpha 2M-IL-1 beta complexes, but not "F" alpha 2M alone, retained IL-1-like activity in the thymocyte costimulator bioassay.
2494344	Structure of the complex of Streptomyces griseus proteinase B and polypeptide chymotrypsin inhibitor-1 from Russet Burbank potato tubers at 2.1 A resolution.	A low molecular weight protein inhibitor of serine proteinases from Russet Burbank potato tubers, polypeptide chymotrypsin inhibitor-1 (PCI-1), has been crystallized in complex with Streptomyces griseus proteinase B (SGPB). The three-dimensional structure of the complex has been solved at 2.1 A resolution by the molecular replacement method and has been refined to a final R-factor (= sigma[[Fo[-[Fc[[/sigma[Fo[) of 0.142 (8.0 to 2.1 A resolution data). The reactive site bond of PCI-1 (Leu38I to Asn39I) is intact in the complex, and there is no significant distortion of the peptide from planarity. The distance between the active site serine O gamma of SGPB and the carbonyl carbon of the scissile bond of PCI-1 is 2.8 A (1 A = 0.1 nm). The inhibitor has little secondary structure, having a three-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet on the side opposite the reactive site and four beta-turns. PCI-1 has four disulphide bridges; these presumably take the place of extensive secondary structure in keeping the reactive site conformationally constrained. The pairing of the cystine residues, which had not been characterized chemically, is as follows: Cys3I to Cys40I, Cys6I to Cys24I, Cys7I to Cys36I, and Cys13I to Cys49I. The molecular structure of SGPB in the PCI-1 complex agrees closely with the structure of SGPB complexed with the third domain of the turkey ovomucoid inhibitor (OMTKY3). A least-squares overlap of all atoms in SGPB gives a root-mean-square difference of 0.37 A. One of the loops of SGPB (Ser35 to Gly40) differs in conformation in the two complexes by more than 2.0 A root-mean-square for the main-chain atoms. Thr39 displays the largest differences with the carbonyl carbon atom deviating by 3.6 A. This conformational alternative is a result of the differences in the molecular structures of the P'4 residues following the reactive site bonds of the two inhibitors. This displacement avoids a close contact (1.3 A) between the carbonyl oxygen of Ser38 of SGPB and Pro42I C beta of PCI-1. The solvent structure of the PCI-1-SGPB complex includes 179 waters, two sulphate or phosphate ions, and one calcium or potassium ion, which appears to play a role in crystal formation. The molecular structure of PCI-1 determined here has allowed the proposal of a model for the structure of a two-domain inhibitor from potatoes and tomatoes, inhibitor II.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
2537532	The human papilloma virus-16 E7 oncoprotein is able to bind to the retinoblastoma gene product.	Deletions or mutations of the retinoblastoma gene, RB1, are common features of many tumors and tumor cell lines. Recently, the RB1 gene product, p105-RB, has been shown to form stable protein/protein complexes with the oncoproteins of two DNA tumor viruses, the adenovirus E1A proteins and the simian virus 40 (SV40) large T antigen. Neither of these viruses is thought to be associated with human cancer, but they can cause tumors in rodents. Binding between the RB anti-oncoprotein and the adenovirus or SV40 oncoprotein can be recapitulated in vitro with coimmunoprecipitation mixing assays. These assays have been used to demonstrate that the E7 oncoprotein of the human papilloma virus type-16 can form similar complexes with p105-RB. Human papilloma virus-16 is found associated with approximately 50 percent of cervical carcinomas. These results suggest that these three DNA viruses may utilize similar mechanisms in transformation and implicate RB binding as a possible step in human papilloma virus-associated carcinogenesis.
2556261	Complex formation of human papillomavirus E7 proteins with the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene product.	The E7 proteins encoded by the human papillomaviruses (HPVs) associated with anogenital lesions share significant amino acid sequence homology. The E7 proteins of these different HPVs were assessed for their ability to form complexes with the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene product (p105-RB). Similar to the E7 protein of HPV-16, the E7 proteins of HPV-18, HBV-6b and HPV-11 were found to associate with p105-RB in vitro. The E7 proteins of HPV types associated with a high risk of malignant progression (HPV-16 and HPV-18) formed complexes with p105-RB with equal affinities. The E7 proteins encoded by HPV types 6b and 11, which are associated with clinical lesions with a lower risk for progression, bound to p105-RB with lower affinities. The E7 protein of the bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1), which does not share structural similarity in the amino terminal region with the HPV E7 proteins, was unable to form a detectable complex with p105-RB. The amino acid sequences of the HPV-16 E7 protein involved in complex formation with p105-RB in vitro have been mapped. Only a portion of the sequences that are conserved between the HPV E7 proteins and AdE1A were necessary for association with p105-RB. Furthermore, the HPV-16 E7-p105-RB complex was detected in an HPV-16-transformed human keratinocyte cell line.
2647727	Characterization of the calmodulin-binding site of nonerythroid alpha-spectrin. Recombinant protein and model peptide studies.	An important function of the mammalian nonerythroid alpha-spectrin chain (alpha-fodrin) that distinguishes it from the closely related erythroid isoform is its ability to bind calmodulin. By analysis of a series of deleted recombinant spectrin fusion proteins, we have identified a region in the nonerythroid alpha chain involved in calcium-dependent binding of calmodulin. The region is distinctive in that the sequence is absent from the homologous domain of the erythroid alpha chain and diverges from the normal internal repeat structure observed throughout other spectrins. In order to determine limits of this functional site, a synthetic peptide as small as 24 residues was shown to compete with either recombinant or brain alpha-spectrin in binding to calmodulin. The active peptide, which was derived from a segment between repeats 11 and 12, was composed of the following sequence: Lys-Thr-Ala-Ser-Pro-Trp-Lys-Ser-Ala-Arg-Leu-Met-Val-His-Thr-Val-Ala-Thr-Ph e-Asn - Ser-Ile-Lys-Glu. Comparison of this sequence with functional sites in other diverse calcium-dependent calmodulin-binding proteins has revealed a structural motif common to all of these proteins, namely clusters of hydrophobic residues interspersed with basic residues. When folded into alpha-helical conformations, these binding sites are predicted to form amphipathic structures.
2689655	Molecular dynamics refinement of a thermitase-eglin-c complex at 1.98 A resolution and comparison of two crystal forms that differ in calcium content.	The crystal structure of the complex of thermitase with eglin-c in crystal form II, obtained in the presence of 5 mM-CaCl2, has been determined at 1.98 A resolution. The structure was solved by a molecular replacement method, then molecular dynamics crystallographic refinement was started using the thermitase-eglin-c structure as determined for crystal form I. A ten degrees rigid body misplacement of the core of eglin-c was corrected by the molecular dynamics crystallographic refinement without any need for manual rebuilding on a graphics system. A final crystallographic R-factor of 16.5% was obtained for crystal form II. The comparison of the complexes of thermitase with eglin-c in the two crystal forms shows that the eglin-c cores are differently oriented with respect to the protease. The inhibiting loop of eglin binds in a similar way to thermitase as to subtilisin Carlsberg. A tryptophanyl residue at the S4 site explains the preference of thermitase for aromatic residues of the substrate at the P4 site. The difference in the P1 binding pocket, asparagine in thermitase instead of glycine in subtilisin Carlsberg, does not change the binding of eglin-c. The preference for an arginyl residue at the P1 site of thermitase can be explained by the hydrogen bonding with Asn170 in thermitase. Three ion-binding sites of thermitase have been identified. The strong and weak calcium-binding sites resemble the equivalent sites of subtilisin Carlsberg and subtilisin BPN', though there are important amino acid differences at the calcium-binding sites. The medium-strength calcium-binding site of thermitase is observed in the subtilisin family for the first time. The calcium is bound to residues from the loop 57 to 66. A difference in chelation is observed at this site between the two crystal forms of thermitase, which differ in calcium concentration. Additional electron density is observed near Asp60 in crystal form II, which has more calcium bound than form I. This density is possibly due to a water molecule ligating the calcium ion or the result of Asp60 assuming two significantly different conformations.
2713105	[The primary structure of crystallizable monoclonal immunoglobulin IgG1 Kol. II. Amino acid sequence of the L-chain, gamma-type, subgroup I]	The immunoglobulin Kol was the first intact antibody molecule which was characterized by high-resolution X-ray crystallography. Furthermore the complete amino-acid sequence of the heavy (H)-chain is known. Here we report the complete amino-acid sequence of the light (L)-chain of the monoclonal immunoglobulin Kol (IgG1). The polypeptide has an Mr of 22,781, consists of 216 amino acids and due to its structure is of the lambda-type. With the characteristic amino acids threonine, asparagine, threonine, glycine and lysine in positions 101, 114, 116, 154, and 165, respectively the Kol L-chain is of the Mcg isotype. With the proteins Mcg, Mot, Bur, Loc and Mem six myeloma-derived amino-acid sequences of the same isotype are known. The amino-acid sequence of the N-terminal variable part is characteristic of subgroup 1. This contribution completes the primary structure of IgG1 Kol.
2788034	Interleukin-6 triggers the association of its receptor with a possible signal transducer, gp130.	Interleukin-6 mediates pleiotropic functions in various types of cells through its specific receptor (IL-6-R), the cDNA of which has already been cloned. We report here that an 80 kd single polypeptide chain (IL-6-R) is involved in IL-6 binding and that IL-6 triggers the association of this receptor with a non-ligand-binding membrane glycoprotein, gp130. The association takes place at 37 degrees C within 5 min and is stable for at least 40 min in the presence of IL-6, but does not occur at 0 degree C. Human IL-6-R can associate with a murine gp130 homolog and is functional in murine cells. Mutant IL-6-R lacking the intracytoplasmic portion is functional, suggesting that the two polypeptide chains interact to involve their extracellular portion. In fact, a soluble IL-6-R lacking the transmembrane and intracytoplasmic domains can associate with gp130 in the presence of IL-6 and mediate its function. These findings indicate that the complex of IL-6 and IL-6-R can interact with a non-ligand-binding membrane glycoprotein, gp130, extracellularly and can provide the IL-6 signal.
2833817	Guanosine triphosphatase activating protein (GAP) interacts with the p21 ras effector binding domain.	A cytoplasmic protein that greatly enhances the guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) activity of N-ras protein but does not affect the activity of oncogenic ras mutants has been recently described. This protein (GAP) is shown here to be ubiquitous in higher eukaryotes and to interact with H-ras as well as with N-ras proteins. To identify the region of ras p21 with which GAP interacts, 21 H-ras mutant proteins were purified and tested for their ability to undergo stimulation of GTPase activity by GAP. Mutations in nonessential regions of H-ras p21 as well as mutations in its carboxyl-terminal domain (residues 165-185) and purine binding region (residues 117 and 119) did not decrease the ability of the protein to respond to GAP. In addition, an antibody against the carboxyl-terminal domain did not block GAP activity, supporting the conclusion that GAP does not interact with this region. Transforming mutations at positions 12, 59, and 61 (the phosphoryl binding region) abolished GTPase stimulation by GAP. Point mutations in the putative effector region of ras p21 (amino acids 35, 36, and 38) were also insensitive to GAP. However, a point mutation at position 39, shown previously not to impair effector function, did not alter GAP-p21 interaction. These results indicate that GAP interaction may be essential for ras p21 biological activity and that it may be a ras effector protein.
2914611	The refined 2.0 A X-ray crystal structure of the complex formed between bovine beta-trypsin and CMTI-I, a trypsin inhibitor from squash seeds (Cucurbita maxima). Topological similarity of the squash seed inhibitors with the carboxypeptidase A inhibitor from potatoes.	The stoichiometric complex formed between bovine beta-trypsin and the Cucurbita maxima trypsin inhibitor I (CMTI-I) was crystallized and its X-ray crystal structure determined using Patterson search techniques. Its structure has been crystallographically refined to a final R value of 0.152 (6.0-2.0 A). CMTI-I is of ellipsoidal shape; it lacks helices or beta-sheets, but consists of turns and connecting short polypeptide stretches. The disulfide pairing is CYS-3I-20I, Cys-10I-22I and Cys-16I-28I. According to the polypeptide fold and disulfide connectivity its structure resembles that of the carboxypeptidase A inhibitor from potatoes. Thirteen of the 29 inhibitor residues are in direct contact with trypsin; most of them are in the primary binding segment Val-2I (P4)-Glu-9I (P4') which contains the reactive site bond Arg-5I-Ile-6I and is in a conformation observed also for other serine proteinase inhibitors.
3001670	Autoradiographic distribution of 125I calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites in the rat central nervous system.	Using autoradiographic method and 125I-Tyro rat CGRP as a ligand, receptor binding sites were demonstrated in the rat central nervous system. Saturation studies and Scatchard analysis of CGRP-binding to slide mounted tissue sections containing primarily cerebellum showed a single class of receptors with a dissociation constant of 0.96 nM and a Bmax of 76.4 fmol/mg protein. 125I-Tyro rat CGRP binding sites were demonstrated throughout the rat central nervous system. Dense binding was observed in the telencephalon (medial prefrontal, insular and outer layers of the temporal cortex, nucleus accumbens, fundus striatum, central and inferior lateral amygdaloid nuclei, most caudal caudate putamen, organum vasculosum laminae terminalis, subfornical organ), the diencephalon (anterior hypothalamic, suprachiasmatic, arcuate, paraventricular, dorsomedial, periventricular, reuniens, rhomboid, lateral thalamic pretectalis and habenula nuclei, zona incerta), in the mesencephalon (superficial layers of the superior colliculus, central nucleus of the geniculate body, inferior colliculus, nucleus of the fifth nerve, locus coeruleus, nucleus of the mesencephalic tract, the dorsal tegmental nucleus, superior olive), in the molecular layer of the cerebellum, in the medulla oblongata (inferior olive, nucleus tractus solitarii, nucleus commissuralis, nuclei of the tenth and twelfth nerves, the prepositus hypoglossal and the gracilis nuclei, dorsomedial part of the spinal trigeminal tract), in the dorsal gray matter of the spinal cord (laminae I-VI) and the confines of the central canal. Moderate receptor densities were found in the septal area, the "head" of the anterior caudate nucleus, medial amygdaloid and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the pyramidal layers of the hippocampus and dentate gyri, medial preoptic area, ventromedial nucleus, lateral hypothalamic and ventrolateral thalamic area, central gray, reticular part of the substantia nigra, parvocellular reticular nucleus. Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum, nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract and gracile fasciculus of the spinal cord. The discrete distribution of CGRP-like binding sites in a variety of sensory systems of the brain and spinal cord as well as in thalamic and hypothalamic areas suggests a widespread involvement of CGRP in a variety of brain functions.
3097327	Phosphocholine binding immunoglobulin Fab McPC603. An X-ray diffraction study at 2.7 A.	The crystal structure of the Fab of McPC603, a phosphocholine-binding mouse myeloma protein, has been refined at 2.7 A resolution by a combination of restrained least-squares refinement and molecular modeling. The overall structure remains as previously reported, with an elbow bend angle between the variable and constant modules of 133 degrees. Some adjustments have been made in the structure of the loops as a result of the refinement. The hypervariable loops are all visible in the electron density map with the exception of three residues in the first hypervariable loop of the light chain. A sulfate ion occupies the site of binding of the phosphate moiety of phosphocholine.
3301348	The high-resolution X-ray crystal structure of the complex formed between subtilisin Carlsberg and eglin c, an elastase inhibitor from the leech Hirudo medicinalis. Structural analysis, subtilisin structure and interface geometry.	Triclinic crystals of the complex formed by eglin with subtilisin Carlsberg were analyzed by X-ray diffraction. The crystal and molecular structure of this complex was determined with data that extended to 0.12-nm resolution by a combination of Patterson search methods and isomorphous replacement techniques. Its structure was refined to a crystallographic R value of 0.178 (1.0-0.12 nm) using an energy-restraint least-squares procedure. The complete subtilisin molecule could be traced without ambiguity in the refined electron density. The eglin component, from which an amino-terminal segment is cleaved off, is only defined from Lys8I (i.e. the lysine residue 8 of the inhibitor) onwards. Per unit cell, 436 fixed solvent molecules and 2 calcium ions were located. In spite of 84 amino acid replacements and one deletion, subtilisin Carlsberg exhibits a very similar polypeptide fold to subtilisin BPN'. The root-mean-square deviations of all alpha-carbon atoms (excluding those at the deletion site) from models of subtilisin BPN' [Alden, R. A., Birktoft, J. J., Kraut, J., Robertus, J. D. & Wright, C. S. (1971) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 45, 337-344] and subtilisin Novo [Drenth, J., Hol, W. G. J., Jansonius, J. N. & Kockoek, R. (1972) Eur. J. Biochem. 25, 177-181] are 0.077 nm and 0.103 nm. Most of these deviations result from global shifts rather than changes of the local geometry. The single-residue deletion at position 56 affects only the surrounding conformation. Two sites of high electron density and close distances to surrounding oxygen ligands have been found in the Carlsberg enzyme which are probably occupied by calcium ions. Eglin consists of a twisted four-stranded beta-sheet flanked by an alpha-helix and by an exposed proteinase binding loop on opposite sides. Around the reactive site, Leu45I-Asp46I, this loop is mainly stabilized by electrostatic/hydrogen bond interactions with the side chains of two arginine residues which project from the hydrophobic core [Bode, W., Papamokos, E., Musil, D., Seemuller, W. & Fritz, H. (1986) EMBO J. 5, 813-818]. The reactive site loop conformation resembles that found in other 'small' proteinase inhibitors. The scissile peptide bond is not cleaved but its carbonyl group is slightly distorted from planar geometry. Most of the intermolecular contacts are contributed by the nine residues of the reactive-site loop Gly40I-Arg48I.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
3477645	Crystal and molecular structures of the complex of alpha-chymotrypsin with its inhibitor turkey ovomucoid third domain at 1.8 A resolution.	The molecular structure of the complex between bovine pancreatic alpha-chymotrypsin (EC 3.4.4.5) and the third domain of the Kazal-type ovomucoid from Turkey (OMTKY3) has been determined crystallographically by the molecular replacement method. Restrained-parameter least-squares refinement of the molecular model of the complex has led to a conventional agreement factor R of 0.168 for the 19,466 reflections in the 1.8 A (1 A = 0.1 nm) resolution shell [I greater than or equal to sigma (I)]. The reactive site loop of OMTKY3, from Lys13I to Arg21I (I indicates inhibitor), is highly complementary to the surface of alpha-chymotrypsin in the complex. A total of 13 residues on the inhibitor make 113 contacts of less than 4.0 A with 21 residues of the enzyme. A short contact (2.95 A) from O gamma of Ser195 to the carbonyl-carbon atom of the scissile bond between Leu18I and Glu19I is present; in spite of it, this peptide remains planar and undistorted. Analysis of the interactions of the inhibitor with chymotrypsin explains the enhanced specificity that chymotrypsin has for P'3 arginine residues. There is a water-mediated ion pair between the guanidinium group on this residue and the carboxylate of Asp64. Comparison of the structure of the alpha-chymotrypsin portion of this complex with the several structures of alpha and gamma-chymotrypsin in the uncomplexed form shows a high degree of structural equivalence (root-mean-square deviation of the 234 common alpha-carbon atoms averages 0.38 A). Significant differences occur mainly in two regions Lys36 to Phe39 and Ser75 to Lys79. Among the 21 residues that are in contact with the ovomucoid domain, only Phe39 and Tyr146 change their conformations significantly as a result of forming the complex. Comparison of the structure of the OMTKY3 domain in this complex to that of the same inhibitor bound to a serine proteinase from Streptomyces griseus (SGPB) shows a central core of 44 amino acids (the central alpha-helix and flanking small 3-stranded beta-sheet) that have alpha-carbon atoms fitting to within 1.0 A (root-mean-square deviation of 0.45 A) whereas the residues of the reactive-site loop differ in position by up to 1.9 A (C alpha of Leu18I). The ovomucoid domain has a built-in conformational flexibility that allows it to adapt to the active sites of different enzymes. A comparison of the SGPB and alpha-chymotrypsin molecules is made and the water molecules bound at the inhibitor-enzyme interface in both complexes are analysed for similarities and differences.
3640709	X-ray crystal structure of the complex of human leukocyte elastase (PMN elastase) and the third domain of the turkey ovomucoid inhibitor.	Orthorhombic crystals diffracting beyond 1.7 A resolution, have been grown from the stoichiometric complex formed between human leukocyte elastase (HLE) and the third domain of turkey ovomucoid inhibitor (OMTKY3). The crystal and molecular structure has been determined with the multiple isomorphous replacement technique. The complex has been modeled using the known structure of OMTKY3 and partial sequence information for HLE, and has been refined. The current crystallographic R-value is 0.21 for reflections from 25 to 1.8 A resolution. HLE shows the characteristic polypeptide fold of trypsin-like serine proteinases and consists of 218 amino acid residues. However, several loop segments, mainly arranged around the substrate binding site, have unique conformations. The largest deviations from the other vertebrate proteinases of known spatial structure are around Cys168. The specificity pocket is constricted by Val190, Val216 and Asp226 to preferentially accommodate medium sized hydrophobic amino acids at P1. Seven residues of the OMTKY3-binding segment are in specific contact with HLE. This interaction and geometry around the reactive site are similar as observed in other complexes. It is the first serine proteinase glycoprotein analysed, having two sugar chains attached to Asn159 and to residue 109.
7228577	Cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and the blood testis barrier.	The blood testis barrier has been implicated in the pathogenesis of testicular relapse of childhood acute leukemia by forming a "sanctuary site" for leukemic cells. Experiments were conducted to test the transport of carbon 14 cyclophosphamide and tritiated vincristine across the blood testis barrier. Both cyclophosphamide and vincristine crossed the blood testis barrier. However, other factors such as the transport of immunoglobins and leukocytes across the blood testis barrier may interact in the pathogenesis of leukemic testicular relapse.
7236608	Crystallographic refinement and atomic models of a human Fc fragment and its complex with fragment B of protein A from Staphylococcus aureus at 2.9- and 2.8-A resolution.	The model of human Fc fragment was refined at 2.9-A resolution. Two different automated procedures for crystallographic refinement were used [Deisenhofer, J., & Steigemann, W. (1975) Acta Crystallogr., Sec. B B31, 238; Jack, A., & Levitt, M. (1978) Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A A34, 931]. The final R value is 0.22. The dimer of CH3 domains closely resembles the CH1-CL aggregate in Fab fragments. There is no contact between CH2 domains. The contact between CH2 and CH3 domains has about one-third of the size of the CH3-CH3 contact. The carbohydrate, a branched chain of nine hexose units, covers parts of the C-contact face of the CH2 domain, shielding hydrophobic residues on this surface. Six atoms of the carbohydrate are within hydrogen-bonding distance of atoms in the CH2 domain. Crystallographic refinement of the complex between Fc fragment and fragment B of protein A from Staphylococcus aureus reduced the R value of the model is 0.24. A major part of the structure of fragment B consists of two alpha helics; the rest of the polypeptide chain is folded irregularly. In the crystal, fragment B forms two contacts with Fc fragment molecules. Contact 1 involves residues from both helices of fragment B, and residues from the CH2 and CH3 domains of FC, and is predominantly hydrophobic. Contact 2 is smaller than contact 1. Residues from the second helix and adjacent residues of fragment B and residues only from the CH3 domain of Fc contribute to contact 2. The nature of contact 2 is mainly polar and includes a sulfate ion. There are strong arguments that contact 1 is the fragment B-Fc contact formed in solution under physiological conditions, while contact 2 is a crystal contact.
7477378	A huntingtin-associated protein enriched in brain with implications for pathology.	Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expanding polyglutamine repeat in the IT15 or huntingtin gene. Although this gene is widely expressed and is required for normal development, the pathology of HD is restricted to the brain, for reasons that remain poorly understood. The huntingtin gene product is expressed at similar levels in patients and controls, and the genetics of the disorder suggest that the expansion of the polyglutamine repeat induces a toxic gain of function, perhaps through interactions with other cellular proteins. Here we report the identification of a protein (huntingtin-associated protein (HAP)-1) that binds to huntingtin. This binding is enhanced by an expanded polyglutamine repeat, the length of which is also known to correlate with the age of disease onset. The HAP-1 protein is enriched in the brain, suggesting a possible basis for the selective brain pathology of HD.
7477400	The structure of an intermediate in class II MHC maturation: CLIP bound to HLA-DR3.	A complex between HLA-DR3 and a fragment of invariant chain called CLIP was isolated from a human cell line defective in antigen presentation and its X-ray crystal structure determined. Previous data indicate that this complex is an intermediate in class II histocompatibility maturation, occurring between invariant chain-DR3 and antigenic peptide-DR3 complexes. The structure shows that the CLIP fragment binds to DR3 in a way almost identical to that in which antigenic peptides bind class II histocompatibility glycoproteins. The structure is the substrate for the loading of antigenic peptides by an exchange process catalysed by DM.
7478510	Direct interaction of Gadd45 with PCNA and evidence for competitive interaction of Gadd45 and p21Waf1/Cip1 with PCNA.	We have previously shown (Smith et al., 1994) that antibodies raised against the growth arrest and DNA damage inducible protein Gadd45 co-precipitate proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a protein involved in DNA replication and repair. Here we demonstrate that Gadd45 can directly bind to PCNA using a Far-western blotting approach. In this assay, a Gadd45 bacterial expression vector was modified to allow synthesis of purified 32P-labeled Gadd45 fusion protein. This protein was used to detect filter bound PCNA protein, while filter bound Gadd45 protein could also be detected by free PCNA molecules. Using recombinant proteins in conjunction with immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting, we show that Gadd45 competes with p21 for binding to PCNA and conversely, p21 blocks the ability of Gadd45 to bind PCNA. In addition, p21 appears to disrupt PCNA trimers whereas Gadd45 has a lesser effect. PCNA trimer disruption was also observed in UV-irradiated cells but not in repair-defective xeroderma pigmentosum group A (XP-A) cells.
7478594	Gadd45 is a nuclear cell cycle regulated protein which interacts with p21Cip1.	GADD45 was originally identified as a cDNA clone induced by growth arrest and DNA damage. We show that Gadd45 is a nuclear protein, widely expressed in normal tissues, particularly in quiescent cellular populations. Using cell synchronisation methods we show that Gadd45 levels are highest in the G1 phase of the cell cycle, and are greatly reduced during S phase. Immunoprecipitation of Gadd45 from mammalian cells reveals that it is tightly associated with a protein which reacts with antibodies to the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor p21Cip1. Binding of recombinant Gadd45 protein to overlapping p21Cip1 peptides in ELISA assays and use of the yeast two hybrid assay show that Gadd45 directly interacts with this cell cycle inhibitor. These data suggest that Gadd45 may act in the regulation of the cell cycle. It is postulated that the interactions of Gadd45 with both p21Cip1 and PCNA are important for the modulation of cell cycles, and for the inhibition of DNA replication.
7479742	Inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity by association with 14-3-3 proteins in T cells.	Proteins of the 14-3-3 family can associate with, and/or modulate the activity of, several protooncogene and oncogene products and, thus, are implicated in regulation of signaling pathways. We report that 14-3-3 is associated with another important transducing enzyme, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K). A recombinant 14-3-3 fusion protein bound several tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins from antigen receptor-stimulated T lymphocytes. PI3-K was identified by immunoblotting and enzymatic assays as one of the 14-3-3-binding proteins in resting or activated cells. Moreover, endogenous 14-3-3 and PI3-K were coimmunoprecipitated from intact T cells. Far-Western blots of gel-purified, immunoprecipitated PI3-K with a recombinant 14-3-3 fusion protein revealed direct binding of 14-3-3 to the catalytic subunit (p110) of PI3-K. Finally, anti-phosphotyrosine immunoprecipitates from activated, 14-3-3-overexpressing cells contained lower PI3-K enzymatic activity than similar immunoprecipitates from control cells. These findings suggest that association of 14-3-3 with PI3-K in hematopoietic (and possibly other) cells regulates the enzymatic activity of PI3-K during receptor-initiated signal transduction.
7479821	Molecular cloning and characterization of a cellular phosphoprotein that interacts with a conserved C-terminal domain of adenovirus E1A involved in negative modulation of oncogenic transformation.	The adenovirus type 2/5 E1A proteins transform primary baby rat kidney (BRK) cells in cooperation with the activated Ras (T24 ras) oncoprotein. The N-terminal half of E1A (exon 1) is essential for this transformation activity. While the C-terminal half of E1A (exon 2) is dispensable, a region located between residues 225 and 238 of the 243R E1A protein negatively modulates in vitro T24 ras cooperative transformation as well as the tumorigenic potential of E1A/T24 ras-transformed cells. The same C-terminal domain is also required for binding of a cellular 48-kDa phosphoprotein, C-terminal binding protein (CtBP). We have cloned the cDNA for CtBP via yeast two-hybrid interaction cloning. The cDNA encodes a 439-amino acid (48 kDa) protein that specifically interacts with exon 2 in yeast two-hybrid, in vitro protein binding, and in vivo coimmunoprecipitation analyses. This protein requires residues 225-238 of the 243R E1A protein for interaction. The predicted protein sequence of the isolated cDNA is identical to amino acid sequences obtained from peptides prepared from biochemically purified CtBP. Fine mapping of the CtBP-binding domain revealed that a 6-amino acid motif highly conserved among the E1A proteins of various human and animal adenoviruses is required for this interaction. These results suggest that interaction of CtBP with the E1A proteins may play a critical role in adenovirus replication and oncogenic transformation.
7479864	Interaction between focal adhesion kinase and Crk-associated tyrosine kinase substrate p130Cas.	The focal adhesion kinase (FAK) has been implicated in integrin-mediated signaling events and in the mechanism of cell transformation by the v-Src and v-Crk oncoproteins. To gain further insight into FAK signaling pathways, we used a two-hybrid screen to identify proteins that interact with mouse FAK. The screen identified two proteins that interact with FAK via their Src homology 3 (SH3) domains: a v-Crk-associated tyrosine kinase substrate (Cas), p130Cas, and a still uncharacterized protein, FIPSH3-2, which contains an SH3 domain closely related to that of p130Cas. These SH3 domains bind to the same proline-rich region of FAK (APPKPSR) encompassing residues 711-717. The mouse p130Cas amino acid sequence was deduced from cDNA clones, revealing an overall high degree of similarity to the recently reported rat sequence. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that p130Cas and FAK are associated in mouse fibroblasts. The stable interaction between p130Cas and FAK emerges as a likely key element in integrin-mediated signal transduction and further represents a direct molecular link between the v-Src and v-Crk oncoproteins. The Src family kinase Fyn, whose Src homology 2 (SH2) domain binds to the major FAK autophosphorylation site (tyrosine 397), was also identified in the two-hybrid screen.
7481822	Sequence and characterization of a coactivator for the steroid hormone receptor superfamily.	A yeast two-hybrid system was used to identify a protein that interacts with and enhances the human progesterone receptor (hPR) transcriptional activity without altering the basal activity of the promoter. Because the protein stimulated transactivation of all the steroid receptors tested, it has been termed steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1). Coexpression of SRC-1 reversed the ability of the estrogen receptor to squelch activation by hPR. Also, the amino terminal truncated form of SRC-1 acted as a dominant-negative repressor. Together, these results indicate that SRC-1 encodes a coactivator that is required for full transcriptional activity of the steroid receptor superfamily.
7490744	Three-dimensional structures of the Fab fragment of murine N1G9 antibody from the primary immune response and of its complex with (4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenyl)acetate.	The three-dimensional structures of the Fab fragment, in its unliganded and liganded crystals, of mouse anti-(4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenyl)acetate (NP) antibody N1G9 have been determined by the molecular replacement method. The unliganded and NP-liganded structures were refined at 2.4 A resolution to crystallographic R-factors of 0.194 and 0.196, respectively. Antibody N1G9 bears lambda light chains, and is one of the primary immune response antibodies. Fab N1G9 exhibits an elbow angle of 197 degrees in both structures. This large angle is ascribed to the VL-CL interface formed by lambda-chain residues. A hydrophobic pocket surrounded by the complementarity-determining regions except L2 is identified as a hapten-binding site. Between the liganded and unliganded structures, root-mean-square (r.m.s.) positional deviations are 0.42 A for the main-chain atoms, and 0.74 A for all the protein atoms. The major structural differences between these structures are localized in the hapten-binding site, and yield an r.m.s. deviation of 1.03 A for the side-chain atoms. The soaked NP ligand is in van der Waals contact with the aromatic side-chains of Tyr32L and Trp91L of the light chain, and Trp33H and Tyr97H of the heavy chain, and is hydrogen-bonded to the side-chains of Trp96L, His35H, Arg50H, Tyr95H, and Ser100aH. The side-chain of Lys58H is salt-bridged to the NP hydroxyl group. The side-chains of Arg50H, Trp33H, and Tyr97H are shifted toward the NP carboxyl group. The side-chain of Trp33H, whose replacement to Leu increases affinity by tenfold, is sandwiched between the Arg50H and Tyr97H side-chains, and is in cramped contact both with the ligand and with these side-chains. Affinity increases in the maturation of the anti-NP antibodies are ascribable to conformational relief of these cramped contacts through the replacement of Trp33H or through suitable structural alterations in the H3 region.
7492558	X-ray crystallographic studies on hexameric insulins in the presence of helix-stabilizing agents, thiocyanate, methylparaben, and phenol.	Three X-ray crystallographic studies have been carried out on pig insulin in the presence of three ligands, thiocyanate, methylparaben (methyl p-hydroxybenzoate), and phenol. In each case, rhombohedral crystals were obtained, which diffracted to 1.8, 1.9, and 2.3 A, respectively. Each crystal structure was very similar to that of 4-zinc pig insulin, which was used as a starting model for PROLSQ refinement (Collaborative Computational Project, Number 4, 1994). The R factors for the refined structures of thiocyanate insulin, methylparaben insulin, and phenol insulin were 19.6, 18.4, and 19.1, respectively. Each crystal structure consists of T3R3f insulin hexamers with two zinc ions per hexamer. In the R3f trimer of the thiocyanate insulin hexamer, one thiocyanate ion is coordinated to the zinc on the hexamer 3-fold axis, but there is no evidence of zinc ion binding in the off-axis zinc ion sites seen in the 4-zinc pig insulin structure. In the methylparaben insulin and phenol insulin hexamers, the phenolic ligands are bound at the dimer-dimer interfaces in the R3f trimers in a manner similar to that of phenol in R6 phenol insulin. The binding of methylparaben appears to make the hexamer more compact by drawing the A and the B chains closer together in the binding site. In all three structures presented herein, the conformations of the first three residues of the B chain in the R3f trimer are extended rather than alpha-helical, as is seen in R6 phenol insulin. The energetics of ligand binding in the insulin hexamer are discussed.
7499422	Src homologous and collagen (Shc) protein binds to F-actin and translocates to the cytoskeleton upon nerve growth factor stimulation in PC12 cells.	Immunoprecipitates of metabolically labeled PC12 cells consistently contained a 43-kDa protein that was associated with Shc, a signal-transducing protein with a single SH2 domain. Following affinity chromatography with immobilized recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)-Shc fusion protein, the 43-kDa protein was identified as actin by mass spectrometry and immunoblotting. Cosedimentation experiments using purified actin and GST-Shc showed that Shc binds directly to F-actin, confirming Shc-actin interaction in vivo. Various GST-truncated Shc fusion proteins were prepared and used in actin cosedimentation assays. Constructs containing the SH2 and collagen homology domains were not precipitated, and those containing the amino-terminal domain were. Thus, Shc-actin interactions do not occur in the region of tyrosine phosphorylation and leave the SH2 domain free to bind to other tyrosine-phosphorylated molecules. Although the major pool of Shc in unstimulated PC12 cells is soluble, two other pools are associated with the cytoskeleton and the submembranous cytoskeleton. Upon nerve growth factor stimulation, approximately 50% of the soluble Shc translocates to both cytoskeleton environments within 2 min, decreasing thereafter. When cells were pretreated with cytochalasin D, a drug that disrupts actin filaments, Shc translocation to the cytoskeleton was abolished. However, in the submembranous fraction, the Shc level was elevated in resting cells following cytochalasin D treatment. The kinetics of translocation, compared to mitogen-activated protein kinase activation, and the nature of the Shc-actin interaction suggest that the cytoskeletal association of Shc, induced by growth factors, may be related to membrane ruffling and actin fiber reorganization.
7516469	Identification of Src, Fyn, and Lyn SH3-binding proteins: implications for a function of SH3 domains.	Src homology 3 (SH3) domains mediate protein-protein interactions necessary for the coupling of cellular proteins involved in intracellular signal transduction. We previously established solution-binding conditions that allow affinity isolation of Src SH3-binding proteins from cellular extracts (Z. Weng, J. A. Taylor, C. E. Turner, J. S. Brugge, and C. Seidel-Dugan, J. Biol. Chem. 268:14956-14963, 1993). In this report, we identified three of these proteins: Shc, a signaling protein that couples membrane tyrosine kinases with Ras; p62, a protein which can bind to p21rasGAP; and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K, a pre-mRNA-binding protein. All of these proteins contain proline-rich peptide motifs that could serve as SH3 domain ligands, and the binding of these proteins to the Src SH3 domain was inhibited with a proline-rich Src SH3 peptide ligand. These three proteins, as well as most of the other Src SH3 ligands, also bound to the SH3 domains of the closely related protein tyrosine kinases Fyn and Lyn. However, Src- and Lyn-specific SH3-binding proteins were also detected, suggesting subtle differences in the binding specificity of the SH3 domains from these related proteins. Several Src SH3-binding proteins were phosphorylated in Src-transformed cells. The phosphorylation of these proteins was not detected in cells transformed by a mutant variant of Src lacking the SH3 domain, while there was little change in tyrosine phosphorylation of other Src-induced phosphoproteins. In addition, the coprecipitation of v-Src with two tyrosyl-phosphorylated proteins with M(r)s of 62,000 and 130,000 was inhibited by incubation with a Src SH3 peptide ligand, suggesting that the binding of these substrate proteins is dependent on interactions with the SH3 domain. These results strongly suggest a role for the Src SH3 domain in the recruitment of substrates to this protein tyrosine kinase, either through direct interaction with the SH3 domain or indirectly through interactions with proteins that bind to the SH3 domain.
7517397	Physical association between Src homology 3 elements and the protein product of the c-cbl proto-oncogene.	To investigate the nature of proteins recognized by Src homology 3 (SH3) domains, a cDNA expression library was prepared from macrophages and screened with a probe representing the three SH3 domains of p47nck. Two clones were isolated, and one, designated SAKAP I (for Src A box Nck-associated protein I), contained the carboxyl-terminal half of the cbl proto-oncogene product. Studies in vitro demonstrated reactivity between SAKAP I and SH3 domains derived from a variety of molecules. Wide variations in this assay suggested a high degree of specificity inherent in SAKAP I binding. Moreover, it was possible to demonstrate an in vivo association between p47nck and p120c-cbl in HL60 cells. These findings suggest that proteins containing SH3 elements regulate Cbl function.
7523684	Preparation, characterization and crystallization of an antibody Fab fragment that recognizes RNA. Crystal structures of native Fab and three Fab-mononucleotide complexes.	Fab fragments from Jel 103, an antibody which specifically binds to single-stranded poly(rl), were prepared by papain digestion, separated into eight isoforms and characterized by mass spectrometry. One of the purified isoforms yielded crystals suitable for structural studies by X-ray diffraction and its crystal structure was determined to 2.4 A resolution. Soaking the crystals in solutions containing either of the mononucleotides inosine-5'-diphosphate, guanosine-5'-diphosphate or deoxyinosine-5'-monophosphate resulted in binding of the nucleotide in a single binding site. However, adenosine-5'-diphosphate does not bind to this antibody. The recognition of the base is achieved through hydrogen bonds to the C6 carbonyl oxygen and the imino NH group of the purine in a pattern similar to that of the base-base interactions in a double-stranded nucleic acid. Additional binding energy is provided by stacking of the base and the Tyr32L side-chain and by interaction of the alpha-phosphate with the antibody in an anionic binding site. Most of the side-chains interacting with the nucleotide come from the light chain. Surprisingly, this antibody shares the VL sequence with another nucleic acid-binding antibody, BV04-1. The latter binds to a single stranded DNA with a high preference for thymine bases. The structures of the unliganded and complexed Jel 103 Fab are compared to those of BV-04-1 Fab and while they show similarity in recognition of the base of the immunodominant nucleotide, their 5' phosphates occupy different positions, suggesting different orientation of the nucleic acid bound to these two antibodies. Differences in the conformations of the L1 loops between the two Fabs have been noted.
7527043	Grb2/Ash binds directly to tyrosines 1068 and 1086 and indirectly to tyrosine 1148 of activated human epidermal growth factor receptors in intact cells.	The activation of receptor tyrosine kinases generates tyrosine-phosphorylated recognition motifs for the binding of signaling proteins containing Src homology 2 domains. We determined the binding sites of Grb2/Ash, an Src homology 2 domain-containing adaptor protein, within epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors, using Chinese hamster ovary cells overexpressing human EGF receptor mutants in which one of the autophosphorylation sites was retained. In intact cells, the amount of Grb2/Ash coimmunoprecipitated with mutant receptors retaining tyrosines 992, 1068, 1086, 1148, or 1173 was approximately 10, 85, 55, 50, or 20% of wild-type levels, respectively. The association of Grb2/Ash with in vitro autophosphorylated EGF receptor mutants was detectable in those retaining either tyrosines 1068 or 1086 but not in other mutants including those retaining tyrosine 1148. In peptide inhibition assay, phosphorylated peptides representing tyrosines 1068 and 1086 inhibited the binding of Grb2/Ash to in vitro autophosphorylated wild-type EGF receptors, whereas the other peptides representing tyrosines 992, 1148, and 1173 failed to inhibit the binding. Given that tyrosine 1148 of the activated EGF receptor is a major binding site of Shc (Okabayashi, Y., Kido, Y., Okutani, T., Sugimoto, Y., Sakaguchi, K., and Kasuga, M. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 18674-18678), these results indicate that tyrosines 1068 and 1086 of activated human EGF receptors are direct high affinity binding sites of Grb2/Ash and that tyrosine 1148 is an indirect binding site through Shc in intact cells.
7528577	Hematopoietic cell phosphatase associates with erythropoietin (Epo) receptor after Epo-induced receptor tyrosine phosphorylation: identification of potential binding sites.	Erythropoietin (Epo) binding to its receptor (EpoR) induces tyrosine phosphorylation in responsive cells and this ability is required for a mitogenic response. One of the substrates of tyrosine phosphorylation is the Epo receptor (EpoR). The carboxyl region of EpoR cytoplasmic domain is required for EpoR phosphorylation and has been shown to negatively affect the response to Epo both in vivo and in cell lines. Hematopoietic cell phosphatase (HCP) has also been hypothesized to negatively regulate erythropoiesis, based on the hypersensitivity to Epo of erythroid lineage cells in moth-eaten mice that genetically lack HCP. In the studies presented here, we show that HCP binds the tyrosine phosphorylated Epo receptor through the amino-terminal src-homology 2 (SH2) domain of HCP. Using a series of phosphotyrosine-containing peptides, potential HCP binding sites in the cytoplasmic domain of the EpoR are identified. The results support the concept that, after Epo stimulation, phosphorylation of EpoR provides a docking site for HCP in the receptor complex. Recruitment of HCP to the complex and its subsequent dephosphorylation of substrates and/or associated kinases may be important to mitigate the ligand-induced mitogenic response.
7530216	A novel member of the TRAF family of putative signal transducing proteins binds to the cytosolic domain of CD40.	CD40 is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R) family that regulates B-lymphocyte proliferation, immunoglobulin class-switching, and apoptosis through poorly defined signal transduction mechanisms. Using a yeast two-hybrid method, cDNAs were obtained that encode a novel protein, CD40-associated protein-1 (CAP-1), which binds specifically to the cytosolic domain of CD40 but not TNF-R1, TNF-R2, or Fas. The CAP-1 protein contains a C-terminal domain that shares strong amino acid sequence homology with a unique domain found recently in two putative signal transducing proteins that bind to the TNF-R2 cytosolic tail, TRAF1 and TRAF2. This C-terminal region of CAP-1 was sufficient to mediate binding to CD40 and homodimerization of CAP-1 proteins. The N-terminal portion of CAP-1 contains a RING finger motif and three zinc finger-like domains similar to those found in several regulatory proteins that interact with DNA or RNA. CAP-1 thus represents a new member of a family of potential signal transducing proteins that contain a conserved domain (the TRAF domain), bind to the cytosolic regions of particular members of TNF-R family proteins, and that can form homo- and heterotypic dimers.
7532203	Selective interferon-alpha/beta effects on platelet-derived growth factor-stimulated processes in quiescent BALB/c-3T3 fibroblasts.	Interferon-alpha/beta (IFN-alpha/beta) suppresses cell cycle activation by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) as well as the induction of the 31-kD (pI) and the 35-kD (pII) proteins in density-arrested BALB/c-3T3 cells. We report that elevation of [Ca2+]i by ionomycin induces the synthesis of the 31-kD protein, but not that of the 35-kD protein. Since IFN blocks the PDGF-induced elevation of [Ca2+]i, these results suggest that IFN treatment may suppress pI induction by impairing this PDGF-activated signal transduction pathway. In contrast, because ionomycin did not induce the 35-kD protein, the suppression by IFN of PDGF-induced pII appears to be mediated via a pathway distinct from that operating in the suppression of pI. In BALB/c-3T3 cells, IFN-alpha/beta did not itself affect the turnover or de novo synthesis of inositol phospholipids and the cellular content of diacylglycerol, nor did IFN block the enhancement of these parameters by PDGF.
7532276	Interaction cloning of Rabin3, a novel protein that associates with the Ras-like GTPase Rab3A.	Rab3A is a small, Ras-like GTPase expressed in neuroendocrine cells, in which it is associated with secretory vesicle membranes and regulates exocytosis. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have identified a rat brain cDNA encoding a novel 50-kDa protein, which we have named Rabin3, that interacts with Rab3A and Rab3D but not with other small GTPases (Rab3C, Rab2, Ran, or Ras). Several independent point mutations in the effector domain of Rab3A (F51L, V55E, and G56D) which do not alter nucleotide binding by the GTPase abolish the interaction with Rabin3, while another mutation (V52A) appears to increase the interaction. These results demonstrate that the interaction is highly specific. However, a glutathione S-transferase-Rabin3 fusion protein associates only weakly in vitro with recombinant Rab3A and possesses no detectable GTPase-activating protein or nucleotide exchange activity, and Rabin3 overexpressed in adrenal chromaffin cells has no observable effect on secretion. The protein possess a sequence characteristic of coiled-coil domains and a second small region with sequence similarity to a Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein, Sec2p, Sec2p is essential for constitutive secretion in yeast cells and interacts with Sec4p, a close relative of the Rab3A GTPase. Rabin3 mRNA and protein are widely expressed but are particularly abundant in testes.
7533327	Involvement of CRAF1, a relative of TRAF, in CD40 signaling.	CD40 is a receptor on the surface of B lymphocytes, the activation of which leads to B cell survival, growth, and differentiation. A yeast two-hybrid screen identified a gene, CRAF1, encoding a protein that interacts directly with the CD40 cytoplasmic tail through a region of similarity to the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) receptor-associated factors. Overexpression of a truncated CRAF1 gene inhibited CD40-mediated up-regulation of CD23. A region of CRAF1 was similar to the TNF-alpha receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2 and so defined a shared TRAF-C domain that was necessary and sufficient for CD40 binding and homodimerization. The CRAF1 sequence also predicted a long amphipathic helix, a pattern of five zinc fingers, and a zinc ring finger. It is likely that other members of the TNF receptor superfamily use CRAF-related proteins in their signal transduction processes.
7536343	FAP-1: a protein tyrosine phosphatase that associates with Fas.	Fas is a cell surface receptor that controls a poorly understood signal transduction pathway that leads to cell death by means of apoptosis. A protein tyrosine phosphatase, FAP-1, capable of interacting with the cytosolic domain of Fas, was identified. The carboxyl terminal 15 amino acids of Fas are necessary and sufficient for interaction with FAP-1. FAP-1 expression is highest in tissues and cell lines that are relatively resistant to Fas-mediated cytotoxicity. Gene transfer-mediated elevations in FAP-1 partially abolished Fas-induced apoptosis in a T cell line. These findings are consistent with an inhibitory effect of FAP-1 on Fas signal transduction.
7540934	High resolution structures of HIV-1 RT from four RT-inhibitor complexes.	We have determined the structures of four complexes of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase with non-nucleoside inhibitors, three fully refined at high resolution. The highest resolution structure is of the RT-nevirapine complex which has an R-factor of 0.186 and a root-mean-square bond length deviation of 0.015 A for all data to 2.2 A. The structures reveal a common mode of binding for these chemically diverse compounds. The common features of binding are largely hydrophobic interactions and arise from induced shape complementarity achieved by conformational rearrangement of the enzyme and conformational/configurational rearrangement of the compounds.
7541633	Differential role of the low affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75) in retrograde axonal transport of the neurotrophins.	The receptor mechanisms mediating the retrograde axonal transport of the neurotrophins have been investigated in adult rats. We show that transport of the TrkB ligands NT-4 and BDNF to peripheral neurons is dependent on the low affinity neurotrophin receptor (LNR). Pharmacological manipulation of LNR in vivo using either an anti-LNR antibody or a soluble recombinant LNR extracellular domain completely blocked retrograde transport of NT-4 and BDNF to sensory neurons, while having minimal effects on the transport of NGF in either sensory or sympathetic neurons. Furthermore, in mice with a null mutation of LNR, the transport of NT-4 and BDNF, but not NGF, was dramatically reduced. These observations demonstrate a selective role for LNR in retrograde transport of the various neurotrophins from distinct target regions in vivo.
7542140	Structure of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase in a complex with the non-nucleoside inhibitor alpha-APA R 95845 at 2.8 A resolution.	BACKGROUND: HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) is a multifunctional enzyme that copies the RNA genome of HIV-1 into DNA. It is a heterodimer composed of a 66 kDa (p66) and a 51 kDa (p51) subunit. HIV-1 RT is a crucial target for structure-based drug design, and potent inhibitors have been identified, whose efficacy, however, is limited by drug resistance. RESULTS: The crystal structure of HIV-1 RT in complex with the non-nucleoside inhibitor alpha-anilinophenyl-acetamide (alpha-APA) R95845 has been determined at 2.8 A resolution. The inhibitor binds in a hydrophobic pocket near the polymerase active site. The pocket contains five aromatic amino acid residues and the interactions of the side chains of these residues with the aromatic rings of non-nucleoside inhibitors appear to be important for inhibitor binding. Most of the amino acid residues where mutations have been correlated with high levels of resistance to non-nucleoside inhibitors of HIV-1 RT are located close to alpha-APA. The overall fold of HIV-1 RT in complex with alpha-APA is similar to that found when in complex with nevirapine, another non-nucleoside inhibitor, but there are significant conformational changes relative to an HIV-1 RT/DNA/Fab complex. CONCLUSIONS: The non-nucleoside inhibitor-binding pocket has a flexible structure whose mobility may be required for effective polymerization, and may be part of a hinge that permits relative movements of two subdomains of the p66 subunit denoted the 'palm' and 'thumb'. An understanding of the structure of the inhibitor-binding pocket, of the interactions between HIV-1 RT and alpha-APA, and of the locations of mutations that confer resistance to inhibitors provides a basis for structure-based design of chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of AIDS.
7545663	Interaction of calmodulin with its binding domain of rat cerebellar nitric oxide synthase. A multinuclear NMR study.	The intercellular messenger nitric oxide is produced through the action of nitric oxide synthases, a class of enzymes that is regulated by calcium-calmodulin (CaM). In this work, the interaction of CaM with a 23-amino-acid residue synthetic peptide, encompassing the CaM-binding domain of constitutive rat cerebellar nitric oxide synthase (cNOS), was investigated by various NMR methods. Cadmium-113 NMR studies showed that binding of the cNOS peptide increased the affinity of CaM for metal ions and induced interdomain cooperativity in metal ion binding as earlier observed for complexes of CaM with myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) peptides. By using specific isotopically labeled [13C]methyl-Met and selenomethionine-substituted CaM in two-dimensional proton-detected 13C and 77Se NMR studies, we obtained evidence for the involvement of the Met residues of CaM in the binding of the cNOS peptide. These residues form two hydrophobic surface areas on CaM, and they are also involved in the binding of other target proteins. A nitroxide spin-labeled version of the cNOS peptide caused broadening only for NMR resonances in the N-terminal half of CaM, showing that the peptide binds with a C to N orientation to the N- and C-terminal domains of CaM. pH titration experiments of CaM dimethylated with [13C]formaldehyde show that Lys-75 (and Lys-148) experience a large increase in pKa upon peptide binding; this indicates an unraveling of part of the helical linker region of CaM upon cNOS peptide binding. Taken together, our data show that the cNOS and MLCK peptides bind in a closely analogous fashion to CaM.
7545673	Monocyte chemotactic protein-3 (MCP3) interacts with multiple leukocyte receptors. C-C CKR1, a receptor for macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha/Rantes, is also a functional receptor for MCP3.	Monocyte chemotactic protein-3 (MCP3) is recently identified and molecularly cloned C-C chemokine that is chemotactic for and activates a great variety of inflammatory cell types. MCP3 has been reported to interact with several C-C chemokine receptors, which can be simultaneously or selectively expressed on leukocyte subpopulations. In order to isolate receptor(s) for MCP3, a cDNA library was constructed using mRNA from a human NK-like cell line, YT. These cells showed high affinity binding sites for 125I-MCP3 and migrated in response to MCP3. A chemokine receptor cDNA clone, designated YT4, was sequenced and found to be identical to the known C-C CKR1 or macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP1 alpha)/Rantes receptor. YT4 cDNA was subcloned into a mammalian expression vector, and stable transfectants were prepared using the embryonic kidney cell line 293. The transfectants (YT4/293) showed high affinity binding for 125I-MCP3 in addition to specifically binding 125I-MIP1 alpha and 125I-Rantes. All three C-C chemokines were able to cross-compete for binding sites on YT4/293 cells and induced directional migration of YT4/293 cells in vitro, with MCP3 being the most potent chemoattractant. MCP3, MIP1 alpha, and Rantes were equally able to cross-attenuate the migratory response of YT4/293 cells to one another. In contrast, MCP1 and MIP1 beta had very limited capacity to compete for MCP3 binding on YT4/293 cells and had only a minor attenuating effect on MCP3-induced migration. Since MCP3 has been reported to use MCP1 receptor(s), our results with transfected 293 cells expressing only C-C CKR1 clearly establish that C-C CKR1 is also a functional receptor for MCP3.
7551570	NGF binding to the trk tyrosine kinase receptor requires the extracellular immunoglobulin-like domains.	Neurotrophins initiate their biological effects by activating members of the trk tyrosine kinase subfamily. The extracellular region of trk receptors is distinguished by several common structural features, including leucine-rich repeats, clusters of cysteine-rich domains, and two immunoglobulin-like domains. However, the receptor sequences required for ligand binding have not been localized. In order to define the domains involved in NGF binding, a series of chimeric receptors was constructed using cDNA sequences from rat trkA and trkB. The chimeric constructs were expressed after transient transfection in 293 cells and the expression of each receptor was verified by immunoprecipitation and immunoblot analysis. Equilibrium binding of transfected cells revealed that the two IgG domains of trkA are essential for NGF binding. The requirement for the two IgG domains was further confirmed by Scatchard analysis and affinity crosslinking with 125I-NGF. These results indicate that NGF binding is crucially dependent upon interactions with the IgG domains of the trkA receptor.
7552746	Nucleotide mimicry in the crystal structure of the uracil-DNA glycosylase-uracil glycosylase inhibitor protein complex.	The Bacillus subtilis bacteriophages PBS-1 and PBS-2 protect their uracil-containing DNA by expressing an inhibitor protein (UGI) which inactivates the host uracil-DNA glycosylase (UDGase) base-excision repair enzyme. Also, PBS1/2 UGI efficiently inactivates UDGases from other biological sources, including the enzyme from herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1). The crystal structure of the HSV-1 UDGase-PBS1 UGI complex at 2.7 angstrum reveals an alpha-beta-alpha sandwich structure for UGI which interacts with conserved regions of UDGase involved in DNA binding, and directly mimics protein-DNA interactions observed in the UDGase-oligonucleotide complex. The inhibitor completely blocks access to the active site of UDGase, but makes no direct contact with the uracil-binding pocket itself.
7565695	Association of p107 with Sp1: genetically separable regions of p107 are involved in regulation of E2F- and Sp1-dependent transcription.	The retinoblastoma-related protein p107 has been shown to be a regulator of the transcription factor E2F. p107 associates with E2F via its pocket region and represses E2F-dependent transcription. In this study, we provide evidence for a novel interaction between p107 and the transcription factor Sp1. We show that p107 can be found endogenously associated with Sp1 in the extracts of several different cell lines. Moreover, in transient transfection assays, expression of p107 represses Sp1-dependent transcription. This repression of Sp1-dependent transcription does not require the DNA-binding domain of Sp1. Transcription driven by a chimeric protein containing the Ga14 DNA-binding domain and the Sp1 activation domains is inhibited by p107. Interestingly, unlike the repression of E2F-dependent transcription, the repression of Sp1-dependent transcription does not depend on an intact pocket region. We show that distinct regions of p107 are involved in the control of Sp1 and E2F.
7565724	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein physically associates with Nck through Src homology 3 domains.	In the second of a series of experiments designed to identify p47nck-Src homology 3 (SH3)-binding molecules, we report the cloning of SAKAP II (Src A box Nck-associated protein II) from an HL60 cDNA expression library. This molecule has been identified as a cDNA encoding the protein product of WASP, which is mutated in Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome patients. Studies in vivo and in vitro demonstrated a highly specific interaction between the SH3 domains of p47nck and Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein. Furthermore, anti-Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein antibodies recognized a protein of 66 kDa by Western blot (immunoblot) analysis. In vitro translation studies identified the 66-kDa protein as the protein product of WASP, and subcellular fractionation experiments showed that p66WASP is mainly present in the cytosol fraction, although significant amounts are also present in membrane and nuclear fractions. The main p47nck region implicated in the association with p66WASP was found to be the carboxy-terminal SH3 domain.
7566127	A transcriptional co-repressor that interacts with nuclear hormone receptors.	Transcriptional silencing mediated by nuclear receptors is important in development, differentiation and oncogenesis. The mechanism underlying this effect is unknown but is one key to understanding the molecular basis of hormone action. Here we identify a receptor-interacting factor, SMRT, as a silencing mediator (co-repressor) for retinoid and thyroid-hormone receptors. SMRT is a previously undiscovered protein whose association with receptors both in solution and bound to DNA-response elements is destabilized by ligand. The interaction with mutant receptors correlates with their transcriptional silencing activities. In vivo, SMRT functions as a potent co-repressor, and a GAL4 DNA-binding domain fusion of SMRT behaves as a frank repressor of a GAL4-dependent reporter. Together, our results identify a new class of cofactors which may be important mediators of hormone action.
7568201	Protein crosslinking studies suggest that Rhizobium meliloti C4-dicarboxylic acid transport protein D, a sigma 54-dependent transcriptional activator, interacts with sigma 54 and the beta subunit of RNA polymerase.	Rhizobium meliloti C4-dicarboxylic acid transport protein D (DCTD) activates transcription by a form of RNA polymerase holoenzyme that has sigma 54 as its sigma factor (referred to as E sigma 54). DCTD catalyzes the ATP-dependent isomerization of closed complexes between E sigma 54 and the dctA promoter to transcriptionally productive open complexes. Transcriptional activation probably involves specific protein-protein interactions between DCTD and E sigma 54. Interactions between sigma 54-dependent activators and E sigma 54 are transient, and there has been no report of a biochemical assay for contact between E sigma 54 and any activator to date. Heterobifunctional crosslinking reagents were used to examine protein-protein interactions between the various subunits of E sigma 54 and DCTD. DCTD was crosslinked to Salmonella typhimurium sigma 54 with the crosslinking reagents succinimidyl 4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate and N-hydroxysulfosuccinimidyl-4-azidobenzoate. Cys-307 of sigma 54 was identified by site-directed mutagenesis as the residue that was crosslinked to DCTD. DCTD was also crosslinked to the beta subunit of Escherichia coli core RNA polymerase with succinimidyl 4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate, but not with N-hydroxysulfosuccinimidyl-4-azidobenzoate. These data suggest that interactions of DCTD with sigma 54 and the beta subunit may be important for transcriptional activation and offer evidence for interactions between a sigma 54-dependent activator and sigma 54, as well as the beta subunit of RNA polymerase.
7571013	p75 and Trk: a two-receptor system.	The neurotrophin family of survival factors is distinguished by a unique receptor-signaling system that is composed of two transmembrane receptor proteins. Nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and NT-4/5 share similar protein structures and biological functions and interact with two different types of cell-surface proteins, the Trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases, and the p75, or low-affinity neurotrophin receptor. An important question is whether a dual receptor system is necessary for neurotrophin action. Evidence indicates that co-expression of the two genes for the p75 receptor and the Trk NGF receptor can potentially lead to greater responsiveness to NGF, and suggests additional levels of regulation for the family of neurotrophin factors.
7588629	A single amino acid in the SH3 domain of Hck determines its high affinity and specificity in binding to HIV-1 Nef protein.	We have examined the differential binding of Hck and Fyn to HIV-1 Nef to elucidate the structural basis of SH3 binding affinity and specificity. Full-length Nef bound to Hck SH3 with the highest affinity reported for an SH3-mediated interaction (KD 250 nM). In contrast to Hck, affinity of the highly homologous Fyn SH3 for Nef was too weak (KD > 20 microM) to be accurately determined. We show that this distinct specificity lies in a variable loop, the 'RT loop', positioned close to conserved SH3 residues implicated in the binding of proline-rich (PxxP) motifs. A mutant Fyn SH3 with a single amino acid substitution (R96I) in its RT loop had an affinity (KD 380 nM) for Nef comparable with that of Hck SH3. Based on additional mutagenesis studies we propose that the selective recognition of Nef by Hck SH3 is determined by hydrophobic interactions involving an isoleucine residue in its RT loop. Although Nef contains a PxxP motif which is necessary for the interaction with Hck SH3, high affinity binding was only observed for intact Nef protein. The binding of a peptide containing the Nef PxxP motif showed > 300-fold weaker affinity for Hck SH3 than full-length Nef.
7588773	Binding of human prothymosin alpha to the leucine-motif/activation domains of HTLV-I Rex and HIV-1 Rev.	Rex of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) and Rev of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) are post-transcriptional regulators of viral gene expression. By means of affinity chromatography, we purified an 18-kDa cellular protein that bound to the conserved leucine-motif/activation domain of HTLV-I Rex or HIV-1 Rev. The protein that was purified through a Rev-affinity column was found to bind to Rex immunoprecipitated with anti-Rex IgG from an HTLV-I-producing cell line. We analyzed the purified approximately 18-kDa protein biochemically and identified it as prothymosin alpha. The binding activity of prothymosin alpha to Rev or Rex was completely abolished when the epsilon-amino groups of its lysine residues were chemically modified by N-succinimidyl-3-(4-hydroxy-3,5-diodo- phenyl)propionate. The functional relationship between the nuclear protein prothymosin alpha and Rex-Rev is discussed.
7592578	High affinity binding of alpha-latrotoxin to recombinant neurexin I alpha.	alpha-Latrotoxin is a potent neurotoxin from black widow spider venom that stimulates neurotransmitter release. alpha-Latrotoxin is thought to act by binding to a high affinity receptor on presynaptic nerve terminals. In previous studies, high affinity alpha-latrotoxin binding proteins were isolated and demonstrated to contain neurexin I alpha as a major component. Neurexin I alpha is a cell surface protein that exists in multiple differentially spliced isoforms and belongs to a large family of neuron-specific proteins. Using a series of neurexin I-IgG fusion proteins, we now show that recombinant neurexin I alpha binds alpha-latrotoxin directly with high affinity (Kd approximately 4 nM). Binding of alpha-latrotoxin to recombinant neurexin I alpha is dependent on Ca2+ (EC50 approximately 30 microM). Our data suggest that neurexin I alpha is a Ca(2+)-dependent high affinity receptor for alpha-latrotoxin.
7592581	Site-specific mutagenesis demonstrates that cysteine 4326 of apolipoprotein B is required for covalent linkage with apolipoprotein (a) in vivo.	In the formation of the lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) particle, apolipoprotein(a) (apo(a)) and apolipoprotein B (apoB) are covalently linked via a disulfide bond in both humans and human-apo(a)/apoB transgenic mice. Studies based upon fluorescent labeling of free cysteine residues have suggested that cysteine 3734 of the 4 carboxyl-terminal cysteines of apoB (Cys-3734, Cys-3890, Cys-4190, and Cys-4326) is the most likely candidate to form a disulfide bond with apo(a). However, other recent studies using truncated apoB molecules suggest that Cys-4326, the terminal cysteine of apoB, may be implicated in the binding to apo(a). In order to definitively show which of apoB's carboxyl-terminal cysteines is essential in interacting with apo(a) we have used RecA-assisted restriction enzyme digestion coupled with site-specific mutagenesis to convert Cys-3734 and Cys-4326 to serine within separate 90-kilobase pair apoB P1 phagemid clones. Transgenic mice containing the normal or mutated apoB transgenes were created, and the covalent association of mutated apoB with apo(a) was assessed in mice transgenic for both apoB and apo(a). Analysis by ultracentrifugation and immunoblotting revealed that Cys-4326, but not Cys-3734, was essential in the formation of the covalent bond between apo(a) and apoB in vivo.
7592885	p80/85 cortactin associates with the Src SH2 domain and colocalizes with v-Src in transformed cells.	Expression of oncogenic variants of pp60src leads to dramatic changes in cytoskeletal organization characteristic of transformation. Activated Src associates with the cytoskeletal matrix, resulting in tyrosine phosphorylation of specific cytoskeletal substrates. We have previously shown that stable association of Src with the cytoskeletal matrix is mediated by the Src SH2 domain in a phosphotyrosine-dependent interaction. In this report, we demonstrate that one of the cytoskeletal binding partners of Src is p80/85 cortactin. The association was observed in lysates of transformed cells but was not seen in normal fibroblasts. The interaction could be reconstituted in vitro using transformed cell extracts and a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein containing the Src SH2 domain but not with GST-Src SH3 or with GST-Src SH2 containing a point mutation in the FLVRES sequence. Confocal microscopy revealed that cortactin redistributed and colocalized with v-Src and a Src SH3 deletion mutant in transformed cells. However, in cells expressing a Src SH2 deletion mutant, the redistribution of cortactin and colocalization with Src did not occur. Furthermore, biochemical fractionation of transformed cells indicated that a significant increase in cortactin distribution to the cytoskeletal fraction occurred, which correlated with a shift in the tyrosine-phosphorylated form of the protein. Cortactin fractionated from cells expressing kinase-defective or myristylation-defective Src mutants did not exhibit this shift. These data suggest a molecular mechanism by which tyrosine phosphorylation of cortactin and association with the Src SH2 domain influence the cytoskeletal reorganization induced in Src-transformed cells.
7606712	APC binds to the novel protein EB1.	Mutations of the APC gene play a critical role in both sporadic and familial forms of colorectal cancer. The vast majority of these mutations result in the loss of the carboxyl terminus of the protein. To further elucidate the function of APC, we searched for cellular proteins that associate with its carboxyl terminus. One million human cDNA clones were screened with the use of the interaction trap two-hybrid system, and 67 clones were found to have a phenotype suggestive of an APC-interacting protein. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that 48 of these clones were derived from a single novel named EBI. The association of APC and EB1 proteins was confirmed with in vitro binding assays. mAbs against EB1 were then produced and used to demonstrate the association of APC and EB1 in vivo. The EB1 gene was predicted to encode a 268-amino acid protein without significant homology to proteins with known function. However, searches of nucleotide databases did identify evidence for at least two related human genes and a yeast homologue. This conservation suggests an essential function for EB1 that might provide clues to the mechanism through which APC suppresses colonic neoplasia.
7623382	Structure of deoxyhaemoglobin of the antarctic fish Pagothenia bernacchii with an analysis of the structural basis of the root effect by comparison of the liganded and unliganded haemoglobin structures.	We have determined the structure of deoxyhaemoglobin from the antarctic fish Pagothenia bernacchii at pH 6.2 to a resolution of 2.2 A with X-ray data from a twinned crystal deconvoluted so as to approximate data from a single crystal. The R-factor between the (twinned) model and the observed data is 16% for reflections used in refinement and 22% for reflections not used in refinement. The T (deoxy) structure was compared with the R (liganded) structure at pH 8.0 in an attempt to understand the structural basis of the greater affinity for hydrogen ions of T, relative to R, that comprises the Root effect. Up to half of the effect can be attributed to interaction of the residues Asp95 (G1)alpha and Asp101 (G3)beta: in R the residues are far apart and their carboxyl groups are unprotonated, but the shift at the alpha 1 beta 2 interface that accompanies the R to T transition brings them so close that they appear to share a proton between them. The proximity of Asp99 (G1)beta may contribute to the required raising of the pKa values of the other two Asp residues. These and neighbouring residues are sufficiently conserved in the haemoglobins of trout (component IV), carp and bluefin tuna, all of which exhibit the Root effect, for the same mechanism to apply. However, the environment is equally conserved in haemoglobins of Trematomus newnesi (major component) and trout (component I), which do not exhibit the Root effect, so that the structural factors controlling the Asp-Asp interaction remain unclear. No other residue appears to undergo an R to T change in the immediate neighbourhoods that could account for any significant portion of the Root effect, so at least half of the effect must result either from long-range electrostatic interactions or from a large number of local interactions.
7624774	Interaction of papillomavirus E6 oncoproteins with a putative calcium-binding protein.	Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are associated with the majority of cervical cancers and encode a transforming protein, E6, that interacts with the tumor suppressor protein p53. Because E6 has p53-independent transforming activity, the yeast two-hybrid system was used to search for other E6-binding proteins. One such protein, E6BP, interacted with cancer-associated HPV E6 and with bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1) E6. The transforming activity of BPV-1 E6 mutants correlated with their E6BP-binding ability. E6BP is identical to a putative calcium-binding protein, ERC-55, that appears to be localized in the endoplasmic reticulum.
7628441	LckBP1, a proline-rich protein expressed in haematopoietic lineage cells, directly associates with the SH3 domain of protein tyrosine kinase p56lck.	The Lck tyrosine kinase molecule plays an essential role in T cell activation and T cell development. Using the expression cloning technique, we have isolated a gene that encodes a molecule, LckBP1, able to associate with murine Lck. Analysis of full-length LckBP1 cDNA indicates at least four potentially important segments: a four tandem 37 amino acid repeat motif with a potential helix-turn-helix DNA binding motif; a proline-rich region; a proline-glutamate repeat; and an SH3 domain. These four regions are very similar to the human haematopoietic-specific protein 1 (HS1). Deletion mutant analysis of LckBP1 revealed two proline-rich regions that permit association with Lck SH3. One region contains prolines conserved among HS1 and cortactin, and the other region contains a potential MAP kinase recognition site. In vivo association between Lck and LckBP1 was confirmed by immunoprecipitation of lysates from a pre-T cell line and adult thymocytes using antibodies specific for Lck and LckBP1. LckBP1 is tyrosine phosphorylated after T-cell receptor stimulation. The SH3 domain and the potential helix-turn-helix motif in LckBP1 suggest that this molecule may associate with various molecules and function as a DNA binding molecule. The data also suggest that LckBP1 mediates intracellular signalling through Lck in T cells.
7629060	Rho family GTPases bind to phosphoinositide kinases.	Rho family GTPases appear to play an important role in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, but the mechanism of regulation is unknown. Since phosphoinositide 3-kinase and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate have also been implicated in actin reorganization, we investigated the possibility that Rho family members interact with phosphoinositide kinases. We found that both GTP- and GDP-bound Rac1 associate with phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase in vitro and in vivo. Phosphoinositide 3-kinase also bound to Rac1 and Cdc42Hs, and these interactions were GTP-dependent. Stimulation of Swiss 3T3 cells with platelet-derived growth factor induced the association of PI 3-kinase with Rac in immunoprecipitates. PI 3-kinase activity was also detected in Cdc42 immunoprecipitates from COS7 cells. These results suggest that phosphoinositide kinases are involved in Rho family signal transduction pathways and raise the possibility that the effects of Rho family members on the actin cytoskeleton are mediated in part by phosphoinositide kinases.
7629115	Ca(2+)-dependent interaction of recoverin with rhodopsin kinase.	Recoverin (Rv) is a myristoylated Ca(2+)-binding protein present primarily in bovine photoreceptors. It represents a newly identified family of neuronal specific Ca(2+)-binding proteins that includes neurocalcin, hippocalcin, and guanylyl cyclase-activating protein. To investigate the function of Rv in photoreceptors, we identified proteins that bind immobilized Rv in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Rhodopsin kinase (RK), interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein, and tubulin interact with Rv in the presence of Ca2+. The importance of the Rv/RK interaction was further characterized. RK, purified using immobilized Rv as an affinity matrix, catalyzed the light-dependent and Ca(2+)-independent incorporation of phosphates into rhodopsin when reconstituted with urea-stripped rod outer segment membranes. When only a small fraction (0.04%) of rhodopsin was photolyzed, as many as 700 phosphates were incorporated per photolyzed rhodopsin, a phenomenon known as "high gain" phosphorylation. When recoverin was added, the activity of RK became sensitive to free Ca2+, with EC50 = 3 microM. The N-terminal myristoyl residue of Rv enhances the inhibitory effect of Rv and introduces cooperativity to the Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition of rhodopsin phosphorylation. Rv neither interacts with other members of the G-protein-coupled receptor kinase family such as beta-adrenergic receptor kinase 1 nor inhibits beta-adrenergic receptor kinase 1 activity. The specific and Ca(2+)-dependent Rv/RK interaction is necessary for the inhibitory effect of Rv on rhodopsin phosphorylation and may play an important role in photoreceptor light adaptation.
7642581	The SH3 domain-binding T cell tyrosyl phosphoprotein p120. Demonstration of its identity with the c-cbl protooncogene product and in vivo complexes with Fyn, Grb2, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.	Previously, we have identified p120 as a Fyn/Lck SH3 and SH2 domain-binding protein that is tyrosine phosphorylated rapidly after T cell receptor triggering. Here, we used direct protein purification, amino acid sequence analysis, reactivity with antibodies, and two-dimensional gel analyses to identify p120 as the human c-cbl protooncogene product. We demonstrate in vivo complexes of p120cbl with Fyn tyrosine kinase, the adaptor protein Grb2, and the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase. The association of p120cbl with Fyn and the p85 subunit of PI 3-kinase (together with PI 3-kinase activity) was markedly increased by T cell activation, consistent with in vitro binding of p120cbl to their SH2 as well as SH3 domains. In contrast, a large fraction of p120cbl was associated with Grb2 prior to activation, and this association did not change upon T cell activation. In vitro, p120cbl interacted with Grb2 exclusively through its SH3 domains. These results demonstrate a novel Grb2-p120cbl signaling complex in T cells, distinct from the previously analyzed Grb2-Sos complex. The association of p120cbl with ubiquitous signaling proteins strongly suggests a general signal transducing function for this enigmatic protooncogene with established leukemogenic potential but unknown physiological function.
7644498	The WW domain of Yes-associated protein binds a proline-rich ligand that differs from the consensus established for Src homology 3-binding modules.	The WW domain has previously been described as a motif of 38 semiconserved residues found in seemingly unrelated proteins, such as dystrophin, Yes-associated protein (YAP), and two transcriptional regulators, Rsp-5 and FE65. The molecular function of the WW domain has been unknown until this time. Using a functional screen of a cDNA expression library, we have identified two putative ligands of the WW domain of YAP, which we named WBP-1 and WBP-2. Peptide sequence comparison between the two partial clones revealed a homologous region consisting of a proline-rich domain followed by a tyrosine residue (with the shared sequence PPPPY), which we shall call the PY motif. Binding assays and site-specific mutagenesis have shown that the PY motif binds with relatively high affinity and specificity to the WW domain of YAP, with the preliminary consensus XPPXY being critical for binding. Herein, we have implicated the WW domain with a role in mediating protein-protein interactions, as a variant of the paradigm set by Src homology 3 domains and their proline-rich ligands.
7644510	14-3-3 proteins associate with cdc25 phosphatases.	The cdc25 phosphatases play key roles in cell cycle progression by activating cyclin-dependent kinases. Two members of the 14-3-3 protein family have been isolated in a yeast two-hybrid screen designed to identify proteins that interact with the human cdc25A and cdc25B phosphatases. Genes encoding the human homolog of the 14-3-3 epsilon protein and the previously described 14-3-3 beta protein have been isolated in this screening. 14-3-3 proteins constitute a family of well-conserved eukaryotic proteins that were originally isolated in mammalian brain preparations and that possess diverse biochemical activities related to signal transduction. We present evidence that indicates that cdc25 and 14-3-3 proteins physically interact both in vitro and in vivo. 14-3-3 protein does not, however, affect the phosphatase activity of cdc25A. Raf-1, which is known to bind 14-3-3 proteins, has recently been shown to associate with cdc25A and to stimulate its phosphatase activity. 14-3-3 protein, however, has no effect on the cdc25A-kinase activity of Raf-1. Instead, 14-3-3 may facilitate the association of cdc25 with Raf-1 in vivo, participating in the linkage between mitogenic signaling and the cell cycle machinery.
7651417	The translation initiation factor eIF-4E binds to a common motif shared by the translation factor eIF-4 gamma and the translational repressors 4E-binding proteins.	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF-4E), which possesses cap-binding activity, functions in the recruitment of mRNA to polysomes as part of a three-subunit complex, eIF-4F (cap-binding complex). eIF-4E is the least abundant of all translation initiation factors and a target of growth regulatory pathways. Recently, two human cDNAs encoding novel eIF-4E-binding proteins (4E-BPs) which function as repressors of cap-dependent translation have been cloned. Their interaction with eIF-4E is negatively regulated by phosphorylation in response to cell treatment with insulin or growth factors. The present study aimed to characterize the molecular interactions between eIF-4E and the other subunits of eIF-4F and to similarly characterize the molecular interactions between eIF-4E and the 4E-BPs. A 49-amino-acid region of eIF-4 gamma, located in the N-terminal side of the site of cleavage by Picornaviridae protease 2A, was found to be sufficient for interacting with eIF-4E. Analysis of deletion mutants in this region led to the identification of a 12-amino-acid sequence conserved between mammals and Saccharomyces cerevisiae that is critical for the interaction with eIF-4E. A similar motif is found in the amino acid sequence of the 4E-BPs, and point mutations in this motif abolish the interaction with eIF-4E. These results shed light on the mechanisms of eIF-4F assembly and on the translational regulation by insulin and growth factors.
7657714	Cell-cycle-dependent alterations of a highly phosphorylated nucleolar protein p130 are associated with nucleologenesis.	We identified a novel human nucleolar phosphoprotein p130 (130 kDa) using a strategy for selecting monoclonal antibodies against nuclear proteins which oscillate in the cell cycle. p130 is localized in interphase nucleoli in a dotted manner. Complete extraction of p130 required a high concentration of salt (0.5 M NaCl) indicating that it binds firmly to the nucleolar components via ionic interaction. p130 is heavily phosphorylated, since alkaline phosphatase treatment converted the purified p130 into a 95 kDa product; this was further supported by the in vitro demonstration that cellular phosphatase and casein kinase II activities were responsible for the interchange of these two forms. Extracts of mitotic cells had lower concentrations of p130 compared to those of interphase cells suggesting that a proportion of p130 might be degraded during mitosis. Moreover, all the remaining p130 in mitotic cells was further phosphorylated, likely by a cdc2 kinase, resulting in increase in its solubility, and its dispersion throughout the entire cytoplasm. Thus, p130 in metaphase and anaphase cells was unable to be detected by immunofluorescence microscopy. At telophase, p130 reappeared and aggregated into a granular structure, resembling the prenucleolar bodies. These granules migrated from the nucleoplasm to the nucleoli in early G1-phase. Actinomycin D was able to induce segregation of p130-containing granules into the nucleoplasm, similar to the well-known behavior of the fibrillarin-containing granules, indicating that p130 is localized in the dense fibrillar component, a subnucleolar region for pre-rRNA synthesis and processing. The cDNA sequence of p130 revealed a remarkable feature, that a serine-rich stretch interspersed with acidic residues is repeated ten times. Such a characteristic is shared with a rat nucleolar phosphoprotein Nopp140, which is thought to shuttle between the nucleolus and the cytoplasm. Although p130 shows 74% identity to Nopp140, our observations suggest that during mitosis the functions of p130 are related to nucleologenesis.
7664109	The x-ray structure of an anti-tumour antibody in complex with antigen.	The crystal structures of the murine BR96 Fab and its human chimera have been determined in complex with the nonoate methyl ester derivative of Lewis Y (nLey) at 2.8 A and 2.5 A resolution, respectively. BR96 binds the carbohydrate in a large pocket which is formed by residues of all CDR loops except L2. The binding of the carbohydrate is mediated predominantly by aromatic residues in BR96. Analysis of the structure suggests that BR96 is capable of recognizing a structure larger than the Le(y) tetrasaccharide, providing a possible explanation for its high tumour selectivity. The structure provides a rationale for mutagenesis experiments that have resulted in BR96 CDR loop mutants with increased affinity for nLey and/or tumour cells.
7666533	Bovine papillomavirus type 1 E2 transcriptional regulators directly bind two cellular transcription factors, TFIID and TFIIB.	The bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1) E2 translational open reading frame encodes three proteins that regulate viral transcription and DNA replication: the E2 transcriptional activator (E2TA), the E2 transcriptional repressor (E2TR) and the E8/E2 transcriptional repressor (E8/E2TR). E2TA is a strong activator of papillomaviral promoters and is required for viral DNA replication. E2TR and E8/E2TR inhibit the activities of E2TA but also possess weak transactivational properties of their own. Two components of the cellular transcription apparatus, TFIID and TFIIB, have previously been shown to associate with other viral and cellular transcriptional activators. We present evidence here that E2TA, the full-length E2 open reading frame gene product, directly binds both of these transcription factors in vitro. Glutathione S-transferase E2TA (GST-E2TA) fusion protein bound in vitro-synthesized TATA-box-binding protein (TBP), a component of TFIID, and in vitro-synthesized TFIIB. Likewise, GST-E2TA bound TFIID and TFIIB present in a nuclear extract from the human cervical cancer-derived cell line, HeLa. The binding of GST-E2TA to TBP and TFIIB required no additional mammalian factors, as shown by direct binding of GST-E2TA to bacterially synthesized recombinant TBP and recombinant TFIIB. The domain of E2TA required for its interaction with both TBP and TFIIB was localized to the C terminus of E2TA, a region also present in E2TR and E8/E2TR. This domain lies within the region of E2TA previously shown to confer cooperative DNA binding by E2TA and TBP and overlaps with the region of E2TA required for DNA binding and dimerization. Our findings, taken in context with previous studies, lead us to conclude that (i) cooperative DNA binding by E2 proteins and TBP is likely mediated by the direct binding of E2 proteins to TBP, (ii) the weak transcriptional transactivation by E2TR and E8/E2TR may result as a consequence of direct TBP and TFIIB binding by these proteins, and (iii) TBP and/or TFIIB binding may be required but is not sufficient for E2TA's strong transactivational activity.
7671300	Crystal structure of human uracil-DNA glycosylase in complex with a protein inhibitor: protein mimicry of DNA.	Uracil-DNA glycosylase inhibitor (Ugi) is a B. subtilis bacteriophage protein that protects the uracil-containing phage DNA by irreversibly inhibiting the key DNA repair enzyme uracil-DNA glycosylase (UDG). The 1.9 A crystal structure of Ugi complexed to human UDG reveals that the Ugi structure, consisting of a twisted five-stranded antiparallel beta sheet and two alpha helices, binds by inserting a beta strand into the conserved DNA-binding groove of the enzyme without contacting the uracil specificity pocket. The resulting interface, which buries over 1200 A2 on Ugi and involves the entire beta sheet and an alpha helix, is polar and contains 22 water molecules. Ugi binds the sequence-conserved DNA-binding groove of UDG via shape and electrostatic complementarity, specific charged hydrogen bonds, and hydrophobic packing enveloping Leu-272 from a protruding UDG loop. The apparent mimicry by Ugi of DNA interactions with UDG provides both a structural mechanism for UDG binding to DNA, including the enzyme-assisted expulsion of uracil from the DNA helix, and a crystallographic basis for the design of inhibitors with scientific and therapeutic applications.
7673114	Interaction between the components of the interferon gamma receptor complex.	Interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) signals through a multimeric receptor complex consisting of two different chains: the IFN-gamma receptor binding subunit (IFN-gamma R, IFN-gamma R1), and a transmembrane accessory factor (AF-1, IFN-gamma R2) necessary for signal transduction. Using cell lines expressing different cloned components of the IFN-gamma receptor complex, we examined the function of the receptor components in signal transduction upon IFN-gamma treatment. A specific IFN-gamma R2:IFN-gamma cross-linked complex was observed in cells expressing both IFN-gamma R1 and IFN-gamma R2 indicating that IFN-gamma R2 (AF-1) interacts with IFN-gamma and is closely associated with IFN-gamma R1. We show that the intracellular domain of IFN-gamma R2 is necessary for signaling. Cells coexpressing IFN-gamma R1 and truncated IFN-gamma R2, lacking the COOH-terminal 51 amino acids (residues 286-337), or cells expressing IFN-gamma R1 alone were unresponsive to IFN-gamma treatment as measured by MHC class I antigen induction. Jak1, Jak2, and Stat1 alpha were activated, and IFN-gamma R1 was phosphorylated only in cells expressing both IFN-gamma R1 and IFN-gamma R2. Jak2 kinase was shown to associate with the intracellular domain of the IFN-gamma R2.
7673147	Characterization of the interaction between CD45 and CD45-AP.	CD45, a leukocyte-specific transmembrane protein tyrosine phosphatase, is required for critical signal transduction pathways in immune responses. To elucidate the molecular interactions of CD45 with other proteins involved in CD45-mediated signal transduction pathways, we have recently cloned a 30-kDa phosphorylated protein, CD45-AP, which specifically associates with CD45. Binding analysis employing several deleted or chimeric forms of CD45-AP and CD45 demonstrated that the potential transmembrane segment of CD45-AP bound to the transmembrane portion of CD45. CD45-AP was found in particulate fractions of lymphocytes along with CD45, indicating that it is likely to be a transmembrane protein. In addition, CD45-AP was resistant to proteolysis by tosylphenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone-treated trypsin applied to intact cells. This is consistent with the most likely membrane orientation of CD45-AP predicted from the amino acid sequence, that is, only a short amino-terminal segment of CD45-AP is extracellular. We propose that CD45-AP interacts with CD45 at the plasma membrane and that the bulk of CD45-AP located in the cytoplasm act as an adapter which directs the interaction between CD45 and other molecules involved in CD45-mediated signal transduction pathways.
7673170	Identification of a transactivation function in the progesterone receptor that interacts with the TAFII110 subunit of the TFIID complex.	Transcriptional activation of target genes by the human progesterone receptor is thought to involve direct or indirect protein-protein interactions between the progesterone receptor and general transcription factors. A key role in transcription plays the general factors. A key role in transcription plays the general transcription factor TFIID, a multiprotein complex consisting of the TATA-binding protein and several tightly associated factors (TAFs). TAFs have been shown to be required for activated transcription and are, thus, potential targets of activator proteins. Using in vitro interaction assays, we could identify specific interactions between the progesterone receptor and the TATA-binding protein-associated factor dTAFII110. The dTAFII110 domain responsible for the interaction is distinct from that reported to suffice for binding to Sp1. Somewhat surprisingly, deletion analysis indicated that the previously identified activation functions 1 and 2 of the progesterone receptor are not required for this interaction but pointed to an important role of the DNA binding domain. In cotransfection experiments and an in vitro transcription assay, the DNA binding domain of the progesterone receptor displayed significant activation potential. These findings, taken together, suggest that an interaction between the progesterone receptor and TAFII110 may represent an important step in the mechanism of activation.
7673249	70-kDa heat shock cognate protein interacts directly with the N-terminal region of the retinoblastoma gene product pRb. Identification of a novel region of pRb-mediating protein interaction.	Retinoblastoma protein (pRb) functions as a tumor suppressor, and certain proteins are known to bind to pRb in the C-terminal region. Although the N-terminal region of pRb may also mediate interaction with some proteins, no such protein has been identified yet. We demonstrated previously the in vivo protein association between pRb and 73-kDa heat shock cognate protein (hsc73) in certain human tumor cell lines. In this report we analyzed the interaction between these two proteins in vitro. Our data showed that hsc73 interacts with the novel N-terminal region of pRb; that is, pRb binds directly to hsc73 and dissociates from hsc73 in an ATP-dependent manner. By using deletion mutants of cDNA encoding pRb, the hsc73 binding site of pRb was determined to be located in the region (residues 301-372) outside the so-called A pocket (residues 373-579) of this tumor suppressor protein. This finding was compatible with the fact that the adenovirus E1A oncoprotein, which is known to bind to the E2F binding pocket region of pRb, could not compete with hsc73 for the binding. Furthermore, phosphorylation of pRb by cyclin-dependent kinase inhibited the binding of pRb to hsc73. These data suggest that hsc73 may act exclusively as the molecular chaperone for nonphosphorylated pRb. As a result, hsc73 may function as a molecular stabilizer of nonphosphorylated pRb.
7675079	Crystal structure of a TFIIB-TBP-TATA-element ternary complex.	The crystal structure of the transcription factor IIB (TFIIB)/TATA box-binding protein (TBP)/TATA-element ternary complex is described at 2.7 A resolution. Core TFIIB resembles cyclin A, and recognizes the preformed TBP-DNA complex through protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions. The amino-terminal domain of core TFIIB forms the downstream surface of the ternary complex, where it could fix the transcription start site. The remaining surfaces of TBP and the TFIIB can interact with TBP-associated factors, other class II initiation factors, and transcriptional activators and coactivators.
7690834	Functional dissection of the CD21/CD19/TAPA-1/Leu-13 complex of B lymphocytes.	The CD21/CD19/TAPA-1 complex of B lymphocytes amplifies signal transduction through membrane immunoglobulin (mIg), recruits phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase), and induces homotypic cellular aggregation. The complex is unique among known membrane protein complexes of the immune system because its components represent different protein families, and can be expressed individually. By constructing chimeric molecules replacing the extracellular, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic regions of CD19 and CD21 with those of HLA-A2 and CD4, we have determined that CD19 and TAPA-1 interact through their extracellular domains, CD19 and CD21 through their extracellular and transmembrane domains, and, in a separate complex, CD21 and CD35 through their extracellular domains. A chimeric form of CD19 that does not interact with CD21 or TAPA-1 was expressed in Daudi B lymphoblastoid cells and was shown to replicate two functions of wild-type CD19 contained within the complex: synergistic interaction with mIgM to increase intracellular free calcium and tyrosine phosphorylation and association with the p85 subunit of PI3-kinase after ligation of mIgM. The chimeric CD19 lacked the capacity of the wild-type CD19 to induce homotypic cellular aggregation, a function of the complex that can be ascribed to the TAPA-1 component. The CD21/CD19/TAPA-1 complex brings together independently functioning subunits to enable the B cell to respond to low concentrations of antigen.
7696853	The monosaccharide binding site of lentil lectin: an X-ray and molecular modelling study.	The X-ray crystal structure of lentil lectin in complex with alpha-D-glucopyranose has been determined by molecular replacement and refined to an R-value of 0.20 at 3.0 A resolution. The glucose interacts with the protein in a manner similar to that found in the mannose complexes of concanavalin A, pea lectin and isolectin I from Lathyrus ochrus. The complex is stabilized by a network of hydrogen bonds involving the carbohydrate oxygens O6, O4, O3 and O5. In addition, the alpha-D-glucopyranose residue makes van der Waals contacts with the protein, involving the phenyl ring of Phe123 beta. The overall structure of lentil lectin, at this resolution, does not differ significantly from the highly refined structures of the uncomplexed lectin. Molecular docking studies were performed with mannose and its 2-O and 3-O-m-nitro-benzyl derivatives to explain their high affinity binding. The interactions of the modelled mannose with lentil lectin agree well with those observed experimentally for the protein-carbohydrate complex. The highly flexible Me-2-O-(m-nitro-benzyl)-alpha-D-mannopyranoside and Me-3-O-(m-nitro-benzyl)-alpha-D-mannopyranoside become conformationally restricted upon binding to lentil lectin. For best orientations of the two substrates in the combining site, the loss of entropy is accompanied by the formation of a strong hydrogen bond between the nitro group and one amino acid, Gly97 beta and Asn125 beta, respectively, along with the establishment of van der Waals interactions between the benzyl group and the aromatic amino acids Tyr100 beta and Trp128 beta.
7703225	Structure of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor/neurotrophin 3 heterodimer.	The development and sustenance of specific neuronal populations in the peripheral and central nervous systems are controlled through the binding of neurotrophic factors to high-affinity cell surface receptors. The neurotrophins (nerve growth factor, NGF; brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF; neurotrophin 3, NT3; and neurotrophin 4, NT4) are dimeric molecules which share approximately 50% sequence identity. The crystal structure of the murine NGF homodimer [McDonald et al. (1991) Nature 354, 411-414] indicated that the dimer interface corresponds to regions of high sequence conservation throughout the neurotrophin family. This potential compatibility was duly exploited for the production in vitro of noncovalent heterodimers between the different neurotrophins [Radziejewski, C., & Robinson, R.C. (1993) Biochemistry 32, 13350-13356; Jungbluth et al. (1994) Eur. J. Biochem. 221, 677-685]. Here, we report the X-ray structure at 2.3 A resolution of one such heterodimer, between human BDNF, and human NT3. The NGF, BDNF, and NT3 protomers share the same topology and are structurally equivalent in regions which contribute to the dimer interface in line with the propensity of the neurotrophins to form heterodimers. Analysis of the structure of regions of the BDNF/NT3 heterodimer involved in receptor specificity led us to conclude that heterodimer binding to p75 involves distant binding sites separately located on each protomer of the heterodimer. In contrast, heterodimer interactions with the trk receptors probably utilize hybrid binding sites comprised of residues contributed by both protomers in the heterodimer. The existence of such hybrid binding sites for the trk receptor provides an explanation for the lower activity of the BDNF/NT3 heterodimer in comparison to the homodimers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7706237	Molecular cloning of SLP-76, a 76-kDa tyrosine phosphoprotein associated with Grb2 in T cells.	The activation of protein tyrosine kinases is a critical event in T cell antigen receptor (TCR)-mediated signaling. One substrate of the TCR-activated protein tyrosine kinase pathway is a 76-kDa protein (pp76) that associates with the adaptor protein Grb2. In this report we describe the purification of pp76 and the molecular cloning of its cDNA, which encodes a novel 533-amino acid protein with a single carboxyl-terminal Src homology 2 (SH2) domain. Although no recognizable motifs related to tyrosine, serine/threonine, or lipid kinase domains are present in the predicted amino acid sequence, it contains several potential motifs recognized by SH2 and SH3 domains. A cDNA encoding the murine homologue of pp76 was also isolated and predicts a protein with 84% amino acid identity to human pp76. Northern analysis demonstrates that pp76 mRNA is expressed solely in peripheral blood leukocytes, thymus, and spleen; and in human T cell, B cell and monocytic cell lines. In vitro translation of pp76 cDNA gives rise to a single product of 76 kDa that associates with a GST/Grb2 fusion protein, demonstrating a direct association between these two molecules. Additionally, a GST fusion protein consisting of the predicted SH2 domain of pp76 precipitates two tyrosine phosphoproteins from Jurkat cell lysates, and antiserum directed against phospholipase C-gamma 1 coprecipitates a tyrosine phosphoprotein with an electrophoretic mobility identical to that of pp76. These results demonstrate that this novel protein, which we term SLP-76 (SH2 domain-containing Leukocyte Protein of 76 kDa), is likely to play an important role in TCR-mediated intracellular signal transduction.
7721825	Identification of the major tyrosine kinase substrate in signaling complexes formed after engagement of Fc gamma receptors.	We have recently identified the protein product of the c-cbl proto-oncogene as an SH3 binding protein expressed in macrophages. To investigate the possibility that p120c-cbl is involved in signaling pathways initiated by cell surface receptors for IgG (Fc gamma R), lysates of HL60 cells were examined for tyrosine phosphorylation of p120c-cbl upon Fc gamma R engagement. Our findings demonstrate that p120c-cbl is tyrosine-phosphorylated upon Fc gamma R engagement and that this molecule represents the major tyrosine kinase substrate in this signaling pathway. Protein complexes containing p120c-cbl, p72syk, and p56lyn were observed either in resting or activated cells. In vitro studies showed that the direct association between p120c-cbl and p56lyn was mediated by the SH3 domain of p56lyn.
7722516	7B2 is a specific intracellular binding protein of the prohormone convertase PC2.	Biosynthetic pulse-chase analyses have previously demonstrated that the prohormone convertase PC2 is first synthesized as a precursor pro-PC2 and that zymogen activation to PC2 occurs following the slow exit of pro-PC2 from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and its concentration within the trans-Golgi network (TGN). The endocrine and neural protein 7B2 is first synthesized as a nonglycosylated precursor (pro-7B2), which is cleaved within the TGN by a furin-like ubiquitous convertase at the RRKRR155S site to generate 7B2. In this report, we demonstrate that within the ER, pro-7B2 binds pro-PC2 but not any of the other convertases furin, PC1, PACE4, or PC5. This specific binding is Ca2+ dependent and does not require an N-glycosylated pro-PC2. Mutagenesis of the RRKRRS sequence demonstrated that the intact hexapeptide is critical for this binding, because the latter was abolished by mutations of the RR152 and greatly diminished by mutations of either the R151 or S156 residues of pro-7B2. Once the complex is formed in the ER, it is then transported to the TGN where furin or a furin-like convertase cleaves both precursors, even when present as a complex. We also provide evidence that following zymogen cleavage, 7B2 remains bound to PC2, suggesting the presence of at least one other Ca(2+)-dependent binding site within the 7B2 sequence. Coexpression of 7B2 and PC2, although resulting in an elevation of the level of pro-PC2, did not eliminate the processing of pro-PC2 to PC2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7730311	The appendage domain of alpha-adaptin is a high affinity binding site for dynamin.	Dynamin is a GTPase that appears to be required for endocytosis. Even though this molecule is known to be in surface-coated pits, the identity of the resident coat proteins that account for this localization is not known. Here we show that dynamin is one of three synaptic terminal proteins that bind with specificity to the appendage domain of alpha-adaptin. Binding is sensitive to both salt and pH levels but is not affected by nucleotides. Using recombinant dynamin expressed in SF9 cells, we estimate that the binding affinity is approximately 200 nM. Binding does not require GTP, and the GTPase activity of dynamin is not stimulated by this interaction. These results suggest that the COOH terminus of alpha-adaptin may be a domain within AP2 that mediates the initial interactions between dynamin and surface-coated pits. This may be an essential step in the regulation of coated pit budding.
7730326	Ligand-specific structural domains in the fibroblast growth factor receptor.	Two tandem immunoglobulin-like disulfide loops (Loops II and III) linked by a short connecting sequence in the ectodomain of the fibroblast growth factor receptor kinase compose the binding sites for glycosaminoglycan and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) ligands. Alternate splicing of exons IIIb and IIIc coding for the COOH-terminal half of Loop III confers high affinity for FGF-7 or FGF-2, respectively, on the fibroblast growth factor receptor ectodomain without effect on the binding of FGF-1. Here we show that a 139-amino acid fragment composed of Loop II, the inter-Loop II/III sequence, and a short segment of the NH2 terminus of Loop III is sufficient and near the minimal requirement for binding of FGF-1, FGF-2, and FGF-7. Extension of the fragment by five additional highly conserved residues (SD(P/A)QP) within a distinct constitutive structural domain (fl1) in Loop III restricts the binding of FGF-7 without effect on FGF-1 and FGF-2. Since the presence of exon IIIc in the full-length ectodomain does not change this ligand binding profile, we suggest that alternately spliced exon IIIc plays no active role in binding of the three ligands. In contrast, exon IIIb actively abrogates the restriction on the binding of FGF-7 and concurrently lowers the affinity for FGF-2.
7730360	Two distinct Raf domains mediate interaction with Ras.	A key event for Ras transformation involves the direct physical association between Ras and the Raf-1 kinase. This interaction promotes both Raf translocation to the plasma membrane and activation of Raf kinase activity. Although substantial experimental evidence has demonstrated that Raf residues 51-131 alone are sufficient for Ras binding, conflicting observations have suggested that the Raf cysteine-rich domain (residues 139-184) may also be important for interaction with Ras. To clarify the role of the Raf cysteine-rich domain in Ras-Raf binding, we have compared the ability of two distinct Raf fragments to interact with Ras using both in vitro Ras binding and in vivo Ras inhibition assays. First, we determined that both Raf sequences 2-140 and 139-186 (designated Raf-Cys) showed preferential binding to active, GTP-bound Ras in vitro. Second, we observed that Raf-Cys antagonized oncogenic Ras(Q61L)-mediated transactivation of Ras-responsive elements and focus-forming activity in NIH 3T3 cells and insulin-induced germinal vesicle breakdown in Xenopus laevis oocytes in vivo. This inhibitory activity suggests that Raf-Cys can interact with Ras in vivo. Taken together, these results suggest that Ras interaction with two distinct domains of Raf-1 may be important in Ras-mediated activation of Raf kinase activity.
7738010	A 68-kDa kinase and NADPH oxidase component p67phox are targets for Cdc42Hs and Rac1 in neutrophils.	Cdc42Hs and Rac1 are members of the Ras superfamily of small molecular weight (p21) GTP binding proteins. Cdc42Hs induces filopodia formation in Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts while Rac1 induces membrane ruffling. Rac1 also activates superoxide production by the components (cytochrome b, p40phox, p67phox, and p47phox) of the neutrophil oxidase. To isolate target proteins involved in these signaling pathways, we have probed proteins from neutrophil cytosol immobilized on nitrocellulose with Cdc42Hs labeled with [gamma-32P]GTP. Cdc42Hs probe detected binding protein(s) of 66-68 kDa in neutrophil cytosol. Rac1 probe also detected the 66-68-kDa proteins, suggesting the possibility that p67phox may be a binding protein for both of these p21 proteins. Indeed, Cdc42Hs and Rac1 were found to bind specifically to purified recombinant p67phox but not the other oxidase components. A 68-kDa Cdc42Hs binding protein was purified from neutrophil cytosol and found to be related to the recently described p65pak kinase from brain. These results suggest that the p68 kinase and p67phox are targets for Cdc42Hs and Rac1 in neutrophils.
7739891	A human protein with homology to Saccharomyces cerevisiae SNF5 interacts with the potential helicase hbrm.	In yeast, the SNF/SWI complex is involved in transcriptional activation of several inducible promoters, possibly by causing a local modification of the chromatin structure. Recently, two human homologues of the SNF2/SWI2 protein have been isolated, hbrm and BRG-1. In addition, a complex containing one of the SNF2/SWI2 homologues and having an in vitro activity similar to the yeast complex has been partially purified from HeLa cells. Here we describe the characterization of a cDNA encoding a human nuclear protein containing a large domain of homology with SNF5, another member of the yeast SNF/SWI complex. This protein can be co-immunoprecipitated with hbrm and the interaction between the two proteins is dependent on the region conserved between the human and the yeast SNF5. These findings suggest that the cDNA we have cloned encodes one of the members of the human SNF/SWI complex.
7744004	A novel serine kinase activated by rac1/CDC42Hs-dependent autophosphorylation is related to PAK65 and STE20.	We identified three proteins in neutrophil cytosol of molecular size 65, 62 and 68 kDa which interact in a GTP-dependent manner with rac1 and CDC42Hs, but not with rho. Purification of p65 and subsequent peptide sequencing revealed identity to rat brain PAK65 and to yeast STE20 kinase domains. Based on these sequences we screened a human placenta library and cloned the full-length cDNA. The complete amino acid sequence of the human cDNA shares approximately identity with rat brain PAK65; within the kinase domain the human protein shares > 95% and approximately 63% identity with rat PAK65 and yeast STE20 respectively. The new human (h)PAK65 mRNA is ubiquitously expressed and hPAK65 protein is distinct from either human or rat brain PAK65. Recombinant hPAK65 exhibits identical specificity to the endogenous p65; both can bind rac1 and CDC42Hs in a GTP-dependent manner. The GTP-bound forms of rac1 and CDC42Hs induce autophosphorylation of hPAK65 on serine residues only. hPAK65 activated by either rac1 or CDC42Hs is phosphorylated on the same sites. Induction of hPAK65 autophosphorylation by rac1 or CDC42Hs stimulates hPAK65 kinase activity towards myelin basic protein and once hPAK65 is activated, rac1 or CDC42Hs are no longer required to keep it active. The affinities of rac/CDC42Hs for the non-phosphorylated and phosphorylated hPAK65 were similar. hPAK65 had only a marginal effect on the intrinsic GTPase activity of CDC42Hs, but significantly affected the binding and GAP activity of p190. These data are consistent with a model in which hPAK65 functions as an effector molecule for rac1 and CDC42Hs.
7744247	Raf1 interaction with Cdc25 phosphatase ties mitogenic signal transduction to cell cycle activation.	The Ras and Raf1 proto-oncogenes transduce extracellular signals that promote cell growth. Cdc25 phosphatases activate the cell division cycle by dephosphorylation of critical threonine and tyrosine residues within the cyclin-dependent kinases. We show here that Cdc25 phosphatase associates with raf1 in somatic mammalian cells and in meiotic frog oocytes. Furthermore, Cdc25 phosphatase can be activated in vitro in a Raf1-dependent manner. We suggest that activation of the cell cycle by the Ras/Raf1 pathways might be mediated in part by Cdc25.
7746322	Structural determinants of nuclear receptor assembly on DNA direct repeats.	Nuclear receptor heterodimers recognize response elements composed of two direct repeats of the consensus sequence 5'-AGGTCA-3' separated by one to five base pairs. The 1.9 A crystal structure of the complex formed by the DNA-binding domains of the 9-cis retinoic acid receptor and thyroid hormone receptor bound to a thyroid-response element shows that the subunits interact through a DNA-supported interface involving the carboxy-terminal extension of the DNA-binding domain of the thyroid hormone receptor. The stereochemistry suggests a mechanism by which heterodimers recognize the inter-half-site spacing between direct repeats.
7752231	Crystal structure of a complex between Serratia marcescens metallo-protease and an inhibitor from Erwinia chrysanthemi.	The crystal structure of the complex between the 50 kDa metallo-endoproteinase from Serratia marcescens (SMP), a member of the metzincin superfamily, and an inhibitor from Erwinia chrysanthemi (Inh) was solved by molecular replacement using the known structure of SMP, and refined at 2.30 A resolution to a crystallographic R-factor of 0.195. The E. chrysanthemi inhibitor folds into a compact eight-stranded antiparallel beta-barrel of simple up-down topology such as is found for members of the retinol binding protein family. It mainly interacts with the protease via its five N-terminal residues, which insert into the active site cleft, occupying the S' sites. The first N-terminal residue, SerI1, is partially cleaved off by the protease, while SerI2 makes a hydrogen bond with the catalytically active glutamic acid, Glu177, of the protease. Further interactions are made between one face of the inhibitor formed by the strands s3, s4 and s5 and the protease segment 218 to 228, which is located immediately after the characteristic "Met-turn" of the metzincins.
7759493	Interaction between the nucleocapsid protein and the phosphoprotein of human parainfluenza virus 3. Mapping of the interacting domains using a two-hybrid system.	A two-hybrid system was used to study interaction in vivo between the nucleocapsid protein (NP) and the phosphoprotein (P) of human parainfluenza virus type 3 (HPIV-3). Two plasmids, one containing the amino terminus of P fused to the DNA-binding domain of the yeast transactivator, GAL4, and the other containing the amino terminus of NP fused to the herpesvirus transactivator, VP16, were transfected in COS-1 cells along with a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) reporter plasmid containing GAL4 DNA-binding sites. A specific and high-affinity interaction between NP and P was observed as measured by the activation of the CAT gene. Mapping of the domains in P (603 amino acids) involved in the association with NP revealed that NH2-terminal 40 and COOH-terminal 20 amino acids are important for such association. Interestingly, a stretch of NH2-terminal amino acids as short as 63-403 interacted with NP more than the wild type, reaching greater than 2.5-fold as measured by the CAT assay. These results suggest that a domain is present in P that negatively regulates its interaction with NP. Deletion of NH2-terminal 40 and COOH-terminal 160 amino acids of NP reduced the CAT activity by more than 95%. These results underscore the important differences between negative strand RNA viruses with respect to interactions between these two viral proteins involved in gene expression.
7768895	A novel ubiquitous form of Munc-18 interacts with multiple syntaxins. Use of the yeast two-hybrid system to study interactions between proteins involved in membrane traffic.	Munc-18-1 is a 67-kDa neuronal protein that binds tightly to syntaxin 1 and functions in synaptic vesicle exocytosis (Hata, Y., Slaughter, C.A., and Sudhof, T.C. (1993a) Nature 366, 347-351). We have now characterized a new Munc-18 isoform, Munc-18-2, that exhibits 63% amino acid sequence identity with Munc-18-1. Munc-18-2 is expressed in most tissues, whereas Munc-18-1 is primarily expressed in brain. Using recombinant Munc-18-1 and Munc-18-2 produced in COS cells, we show that both forms of Munc-18 bind tightly to syntaxins 1A, 2, and 3 but not to syntaxin 4. In an independent approach to study the binding specificities of Munc-18-1 and Munc-18-2, we used the yeast two-hybrid system. This assay system depends on protein-protein interactions in the cell nucleus. We validated its utility for studying membrane trafficking proteins by testing well characterized interactions between cytosolic proteins that are known to be physiologically important in exocytosis. Strong interactions, such as the binding of syntaxins 1-4 with SNAP-25, were effectively detected by the yeast two-hybrid assay, but weak binding, such as the binding of syntaxins to synaptotagmin or of synaptotagmin to neurexins, was not. Studies on full-length and truncated forms of Munc-18s by the yeast two-hybrid system confirmed their interactions with syntaxins. Both the N and the C terminus of Munc-18 were essential for binding. Munc-18-1 and Munc-18-2 bind only to syntaxins 1A, 2, and 3 but not 4 and 5 by yeast-two hybrid system assays. Our studies demonstrate that neural and non-neural tissues have distinct forms of Munc-18, which may function in different types of exocytosis. The lack of specificity of the interactions between syntaxins and Munc-18s indicates that specificity of membrane trafficking reactions is not dependent on this interaction.
7781595	FXR1, an autosomal homolog of the fragile X mental retardation gene.	Fragile X mental retardation syndrome, the most common cause of hereditary mental retardation, is directly associated with the FMR1 gene at Xq27.3. FMR1 encodes an RNA binding protein and the syndrome results from lack of expression of FMR1 or expression of a mutant protein that is impaired in RNA binding. We found a novel gene, FXR1, that is highly homologous to FMR1 and located on chromosome 12 at 12q13. FXR1 encodes a protein which, like FMR1, contains two KH domains and is highly conserved in vertebrates. The 3' untranslated regions (3'UTRs) of the human and Xenopus laevis FXR1 mRNAs are strikingly conserved (approximately 90% identity), suggesting conservation of an important function. The KH domains of FXR1 and FMR1 are almost identical, and the two proteins have similar RNA binding properties in vitro. However, FXR1 and FMR1 have very different carboxy-termini. FXR1 and FMR1 are expressed in many tissues, and both proteins, which are cytoplasmic, can be expressed in the same cells. Interestingly, cells from a fragile X patient that do not have any detectable FMR1 express normal levels of FXR1. These findings demonstrate that FMR1 and FXR1 are members of a gene family and suggest a biological role for FXR1 that is related to that of FMR1.
7781608	Escherichia coli FtsH is a membrane-bound, ATP-dependent protease which degrades the heat-shock transcription factor sigma 32.	Escherichia coli FtsH is an essential integral membrane protein that has an AAA-type ATPase domain at its C-terminal cytoplasmic part, which is homologous to at least three ATPase subunits of the eukaryotic 26S proteasome. We report here that FtsH is involved in degradation of the heat-shock transcription factor sigma 32, a key element in the regulation of the E. coli heat-shock response. In the temperature-sensitive ftsH1 mutant, the amount of sigma 32 at a non-permissive temperature was higher than in the wild-type under certain conditions due to a reduced rate of degradation. In an in vitro system with purified components, FtsH catalyzed ATP-dependent degradation of biologically active histidine-tagged sigma 32. FtsH has a zinc-binding motif similar to the active site of zinc-metalloproteases. Protease activity of FtsH for histidine-tagged sigma 32 was stimulated by Zn2+ and strongly inhibited by the heavy metal chelating agent o-phenanthroline. We conclude that FtsH is a novel membrane-bound, ATP-dependent metalloprotease with activity for sigma 32. These findings indicate a new mechanism of gene regulation in E. coli.
7782338	Characterization of the mammalian YAP (Yes-associated protein) gene and its role in defining a novel protein module, the WW domain.	We report cDNA cloning and characterization of the human and mouse orthologs of the chicken YAP (Yes-associated protein) gene which encodes a novel protein that binds to the SH3 (Src homology 3) domain of the Yes proto-oncogene product. Sequence comparison between mouse, human, and chicken YAP proteins showed an inserted sequence in the mouse YAP that represented an imperfect repeat of an upstream sequence. Further analysis of this sequence revealed a putative protein module that is found in various structural, regulatory, and signaling molecules in yeast, nematode, and mammals including human dystrophin. Because one of the prominent features of this sequence motif is two tryptophans (W), we named it the WW domain (Bork, P., and Sudol, M. (1994) Trends Biochem. Sci. 19, 531-533). Since its delineation, more proteins have been shown to contain this domain, and we report here on the widespread distribution of the WW module and present a discussion of its possible function. We have also shown that the human YAP gene is well conserved among higher eukaryotes, but it may not be conserved in yeast. Its expression at the RNA level in adult human tissues is nearly ubiquitous, being relatively high in placenta, prostate, ovary, and testis, but is not detectable in peripheral blood leukocytes. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization on human metaphase chromosomes and by analyzing rodent-human hybrids by Southern blot hybridization and polymerase chain reaction amplification, we mapped the human YAP gene to chromosome band 11q13, a region to which the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 gene has been mapped.
7783202	Isolation, crystallization, crystal structure analysis and refinement of allophycocyanin from the cyanobacterium Spirulina platensis at 2.3 A resolution.	The phycobiliprotein allophycocyanin from the cyanobacterium Spirulina platensis has been isolated and crystallized. The crystals belong to space group P6(3)22 with cell constants a = b = 101.9 A, c = 130.6 A, alpha = beta = 90 degrees, gamma = 120 degrees, with one (alpha beta) monomer in the asymmetric unit. The three-dimensional structure of the (alpha beta) monomer was solved by multiple isomorphous replacement. The crystal structure has been refined in a cyclic manner by energy-restrained crystallographic refinement and model building. The conventional crystallographic R-factor of the final model is 19.6% with data from 8.0 to 2.3 A. The molecular structure of the subunits resembles other solved phycobiliprotein structures. In comparison to C-phycocyanin and b-phycoerythrin the major differences arise from deletions and insertions of segments involved in the protein-chromophore interactions. The stereochemistry of the alpha 84 and beta 84 chiral atoms are C(2)-R, C(3)-R and C(31)-R. The configuration (C(4)-Z, C(10)-Z and C(15)-Z) and the conformation (C(5)-anti, C(9)-syn and C(14)-anti) are equal for both chromophores.
7784094	Characterisation of the interaction between PCNA and Gadd45.	We have examined the interaction between the DNA replication and repair protein PCNA, and the growth arrest and DNA damage induced protein Gadd45. An anti-Gadd45 polyclonal antibody co-immunoprecipitates PCNA but in reciprocal experiments, an anti-C terminal anti-PCNA antibody failed to co-immunoprecipitate Gadd45. We used a yeast two hybrid assay to demonstrate that human Gadd45 interacts with both human and S. pombe PCNA. We have determined that the N-terminal 94 amino acids of Gadd45 bind to PCNA, and using a series of N-terminal and C-terminal deletions of human PCNA we have mapped two potential Gadd45 binding sites. Deletion of the last 6 amino acids of PCNA ablated interaction, suggesting a role in Gadd45 binding. This explains the inability of an anti-C terminal PCNA antibody to co-immunoprecipitate Gadd45. Using a peptide ELISA approach, we showed that Gadd45 protein binds strongly to three regions of PCNA (residues 1-20, 61-80, and 196-215) and weakly to residues 121-170. The crystal structure of PCNA provides insight into our genetic and immunochemical data. Our results confirm an interaction between PCNA and Gadd45, define regions of both molecules involved in this interaction, and are consistent with a potential stoichiometry of 2 Gadd45 molecules to each PCNA monomer. These data provide support for the notion that PCNA-Gadd45 interactions co-ordinate cell cycle and DNA repair.
7788293	Crystal structure of the C2 fragment of streptococcal protein G in complex with the Fc domain of human IgG.	BACKGROUND: Streptococcal protein G comprises two or three domains that bind to the constant Fc region of most mammalian immunoglobulin Gs (IgGs). Protein G is functionally related to staphylococcal protein A, with which it shares neither sequence nor structural homology. RESULTS: To understand the competitive binding of these two proteins to the Fc region, the crystal structure of a single Ig-binding domain of streptococcal protein G was determined at 3.5 A resolution in complex with the Fc fragment of human IgG and compared with the structures of protein A:Fc and protein G:Fab complexes. Protein G binds to the interface between the second and third heavy chain constant domains of Fc, which is roughly the same binding site used by protein A. Protein G comprises one alpha-helix packed onto a four-stranded beta-sheet. Residues from protein G that are involved in binding are situated within the C-terminal part of the alpha-helix, the N-terminal part of the third beta-strand and the loop region connecting these two structural elements. The identified Fc-binding region of protein G agrees well with both biochemical and NMR spectroscopic data. However, the Fc-binding helices of protein G and protein A are not superimposable. CONCLUSIONS: Protein G and protein A have developed different strategies for binding to Fc. The protein G:Fc complex involves mainly charged and polar contacts, whereas protein A and Fc are held together through non-specific hydrophobic interactions and a few polar interactions. Several residues of Fc are involved in both the protein G:Fc and the protein A:Fc interaction, which explains the competitive binding of the two proteins. The apparent differences in their Fc-binding activities result from additional unique interactions.
7791872	The 2.2 A crystal structure of the Ras-binding domain of the serine/threonine kinase c-Raf1 in complex with Rap1A and a GTP analogue.	The X-ray crystal structure of the complex between the Ras-related protein Rap1A in the GTP-analogue (GppNHp) form and the Ras-binding domain (RBD) of the Ras effector molecule c-Raf1, a Ser/Thr-specific protein kinase, has been solved to a resolution of 2.2 A. It shows that RBD has the ubiquitin superfold and that the structure of Rap1A is very similar to that of Ras. The interaction between the two proteins is mediated by an apparent central antiparallel beta-sheet formed by strands B1-B2 from RBD and strands beta 2-beta 3 from Rap1A. Complex formation is mediated by main-chain and side-chain interactions of the so-called effector residues in the switch I region of Rap1A.
7798267	The signaling pathway coupling epidermal growth factor receptors to activation of p21ras.	Epidermal growth factor (EGF) treatment causes autophosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) leading to increased guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF; Sos) activity and enhanced formation of p21ras-GTP. The connection of the EGFR to p21ras activation can occur through binding of Grb2.Sos complexes to the EGFR or through the adaptor protein Shc via EGFR.Shc.Grb2.Sos multimeric complexes. Therefore, we investigated the importance of Shc in coupling the EGFR to activation of ras GEF (Sos). EGF treatment led to rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc. Although phosphorylated EGFR can bind to both Shc and Grb2, the predominant linkage was observed between EGFR and Shc. Similarly, more Grb2 was associated with Shc than with EGFR after EGF stimulation. Immunoprecipitation of Shc from EGF-stimulated cells removed almost all EGFR-associated Grb2. Furthermore, immunodepletion of Shc proteins from membrane fractions of EGF-stimulated cells removed 93% of the ras GEF activity, whereas, precipitation of EGFR had only a small effect on ras GEF activity. These data indicate that coupling to Shc provides the major pathway linking activated EGFRs to Grb2.Sos and stimulation of the p21ras pathway.
7809090	Binding of Vav to Grb2 through dimerization of Src homology 3 domains.	The protooncogenic protein Vav has the structure of an intracellular signal transducer. It is exclusively expressed in cells of hematopoietic lineage and plays a crucial role in hematopoietic cell differentiation. Here we report that both in cell extracts and within intact mammalian cells Vav binds to Grb2 (Sem-5/ASH/Drk), an adaptor molecule which plays a key role in Ras activation. The interaction became evident from a yeast two-hybrid screen and its specificity was demonstrated by in vitro binding assays. It is mediated by an unusual protein-protein binding reaction: dimerization of specific intact Src homology 3 domains of each of the partners. Signaling during hematopoietic lineage differentiation may therefore involve the tissue-specific signal transducer Vav linking into the ubiquitous pathway involving Grb2 and ultimately Ras.
7809103	Phosphorylation negatively regulates the function of coactivator PC4.	Human positive cofactor 4 (PC4) mediates activator-dependent transcription by RNA polymerase II, apparently through interactions with transcriptional activators and the basal transcription machinery. We report here that PC4 function is modulated by in vivo phosphorylation. Protein-protein interaction studies and in vitro transcription assays demonstrate that only the nonphosphorylated form of PC4 is functionally active. Although recombinant PC4 can be phosphorylated by casein kinase II and protein kinase C in vitro, mutational and mass spectrometric analyses suggest that the in vivo hyperphosphorylation of PC4 is mediated mainly by casein kinase II and restricted to an N-terminal serine-rich region. These observations provide one example of a transcriptional cofactor that is negatively regulated by casein kinase II phosphorylation.
7809159	Interaction mating reveals binary and ternary connections between Drosophila cell cycle regulators.	We characterized interactions between Drosophila melanogaster cell cycle regulatory proteins by a yeast interaction-mating technique. The results were displayed as two-dimensional matrices that revealed individual binary interactions between proteins. Each protein (Cdi, cyclin-dependent kinase interactor) interacted with a distinct spectrum of cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdk) from Drosophila and other organisms. Some Cdis interacted with other Cdis, indicating that these proteins may form trimeric complexes that include Cdks. Similar analysis of interaction matrices may be generally useful in detecting other multiprotein complexes and in establishing connectivity between individual complex members. Moreover, such analysis may also help assign function to newly identified proteins, identify domains involved in protein-protein interactions, and aid the dissection of genetic regulatory networks.
7815540	Simian virus 40 large T antigen affects the Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell cycle and interacts with p34CDC28.	Simian virus 40 tumor (T) antigen, an established viral oncoprotein, causes alterations in cell growth control through interacting with, and altering the function of, cellular proteins. To examine the effects of T antigen on cell growth control, and to identify the cellular proteins with which it may functionally interact, T antigen was expressed in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The yeast cells expressing T antigen showed morphological alterations as well as growth inhibition attributable, at least in part, to a lag in progression from G1 to S. This point in the cell cycle is also known to be affected by T antigen in mammalian cells. Both p34CDC28 and p34CDC2Hs were shown to bind to a chimeric T antigen-glutathione S-transferase fusion protein, indicating that T antigen interacts directly with cell cycle proteins which control the G1 to S transition. This interaction was confirmed by in vivo cross-linking experiments, in which T antigen and p34CDC28 were coimmunoprecipitated from extracts of T-antigen-expressing yeast cells. These immunoprecipitated complexes could phosphorylate histone H1, indicating that kinase activity was retained. In addition, in autophosphorylation reactions, the complexes phosphorylated a novel 60-kDa protein which appeared to be underphosphorylated (or underrepresented) in p34CDC28-containing complexes from cells which did not express T antigen. These results suggest that T antigen interacts with p34CDC28 and alters the kinase function of p34CDC28-containing complexes. These events correlate with alterations in the yeast cell cycle at the G1 to S transition.
7828850	Disruption of retinoblastoma protein function by coexpression of its C pocket fragment.	The growth suppression function of the retinoblastoma protein (RB) is mediated by its interaction with a variety of cellular proteins. RB contains at least two protein-binding pockets: the large A/B pocket, which interacts with E2F and the D-type cyclins, and the C pocket, which interacts with the nuclear c-Abl tyrosine kinase. The large A/B pocket and the C pocket are shown here to be functionally distinct and can be occupied simultaneously. A complex containing E2F, RB, and c-Abl is detected in vivo and can be assembled in vitro. We propose that the biological activity of RB not only depends on the inhibition of its targets but also on its ability to properly assemble specific protein complexes. Consistent with this hypothesis, a fragment of RB, SE delta, containing only the C pocket is shown to act as a dominant-negative inhibitor of RB function. SE delta does not have growth inhibitory activity of its own. When coexpressed with full-length RB, SE delta does not disrupt the RB-E2F or RB-D2 complexes nor does it affect the expression, phosphorylation, or nuclear tethering of the full-length RB. SE delta does compete with RB for binding to c-Abl and is fully capable of inhibiting the c-Abl tyrosine kinase. Thus, SE delta can inactivate RB while maintaining the inhibition of E2F and c-Abl. These results suggest that the inhibition of RB-binding proteins is not sufficient to suppress cell growth and that the assembly of RB-mediated protein complexes is also important for the promotion of cell-cycle arrest.
7859281	The Epstein-Barr virus transforming protein LMP1 engages signaling proteins for the tumor necrosis factor receptor family.	The cytoplasmic C-terminus of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent infection membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is essential for B lymphocyte growth transformation and is now shown to interact with a novel human protein (LMP1-associated protein 1 [LAP1]). LAP1 is homologous to a murine protein, tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2), implicated in growth signaling from the p80 TNFR. A second novel protein (EBI6), induced by EBV infection, is the human homolog of a second murine TNFR-associated protein (TRAF1). LMP1 expression causes LAP1 and EBI6 to localize to LMP1 clusters in lymphoblast plasma membranes, and LMP1 coimmunoprecipitates with these proteins. LAP1 binds to the p80 TNFR, CD40, and the lymphotoxin-beta receptor, while EBI6 associates with the p80 TNFR. The interaction of LMP1 with these TNFR family-associated proteins is further evidence for their role in signaling and links LMP1-mediated transformation to signal transduction from the TNFR family.
7859737	Proline-rich (PxxP) motifs in HIV-1 Nef bind to SH3 domains of a subset of Src kinases and are required for the enhanced growth of Nef+ viruses but not for down-regulation of CD4.	Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and simian immunodeficiency virus Nef proteins contain a conserved motif with the minimal consensus (PxxP) site for Src homology region 3 (SH3)-mediated protein-protein interactions. Nef PxxP motifs show specific binding to biotinylated SH3 domains of Hck and Lyn, but not to those of other tested Src family kinases or less related proteins. A unique cooperative role of a distant proline is also observed. Endogenous Hck of monocytic U937 cells can be specifically precipitated by matrix-bound HIV-1 Nef, but not by mutant protein lacking PxxP. Intact Nef PxxP motifs are dispensable for Nef-induced CD4 down-regulation, but are required for the higher in vitro replicative potential of Nef+ viruses. Thus, CD4 down-regulation and promotion of viral growth are two distinct functions of Nef, and the latter is mediated via SH3 binding.
7862126	Association of the vav proto-oncogene product with poly(rC)-specific RNA-binding proteins.	We have used the yeast two-hybrid system to isolate proteins that interact with the carboxy-terminal SH3-SH2-SH3 region of Vav. One of the clones encoded heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNP K), a poly(rC)-specific RNA-binding protein. The interaction between Vav and hnRNP K involves the binding of the most carboxy-terminal SH3 domain of Vav to two proline-rich sequences present in the central region of hnRNP K. Overexpression of Vav in mouse fibroblasts leads to the formation of a stable complex with the endogenous hnRNP K and to the preferential redistribution of this protein to the cytoplasmic fraction. More importantly, Vav and hnRNP K proteins also interact in hematopoietic cells. In addition, Vav associates in vitro with a second 45-kDa poly(rC)-specific RNA-binding protein via its SH3-SH2-SH3 region. These results suggest that Vav plays a role in the regulation of the late steps of RNA biogenesis by modulating the function of poly(rC)-specific ribonucleoproteins.
7864147	NK1 receptors mediate leukocyte adhesion in neurogenic inflammation in the rat trachea.	In neurogenic inflammation, tachykinins trigger the adhesion of neutrophils and eosinophils to leaky venules. The goals of the present study were to determine whether this leukocyte adhesion is mediated by neurokinin type 1 (NK1) receptors and to determine whether the amount of leukocyte adhesion corresponds to the amount of plasma leakage. Anesthetized rats were injected intravenously with substance P, the NK1 receptor agonist [Sar9, Met(O2)11]-substance P, or the NK2 receptor agonist [beta-Ala8]neurokinin A-(4-10). Five minutes later, the adherent neutrophils and eosinophils in blood vessels of the tracheal mucosa were stained histochemically and plasma leakage was quantified, as assessed by the extravasation of Monastral blue. Substance P and the NK1 agonist caused similar amounts of leukocyte adhesion, but the NK2 agonist had no effect. Pretreatment with the NK1 receptor antagonist CP-96,345 (4 mg/kg iv), before challenge with substance P, capsaicin, or aerosol hypertonic saline, reduced the amount of neutrophil adhesion by 56%, 93%, and 57% and reduced the amount of eosinophil adhesion by 70%, 83%, and 65%, respectively. Plasma extravasation was decreased by 89%, 95%, and 94%. The number of adherent neutrophils in the trachea was strongly correlated with the number of adherent eosinophils (r2 = 0.61). The greatest amount of leukocyte adhesion occurred in larger diameter venules than did the maximal amount of Monastral blue leakage. We conclude that NK1 receptors mediate the adhesion of neutrophils and eosinophils as well as the plasma leakage triggered by substance P, capsaicin, or hypertonic saline. This leukocyte adhesion evidently does not occur at exactly the same sites as the plasma leakage.
7870181	Interaction of thyroid-hormone receptor with a conserved transcriptional mediator.	The thyroid-hormone receptors are hormone-dependent transcription factors that control expression of many target genes. This regulation is presumably a consequence of hormone-dependent contacts between the receptors and the basal transcription machinery. We used the yeast two-hybrid system to identify a candidate human transcriptional mediator that interacts with both the thyroid-hormone receptor and the retinoid-X receptor in a ligand-dependent fashion. This protein, Trip1 (for thyroid-hormone-receptor interacting protein), shares striking sequence conservation with the yeast transcriptional mediator Sug1 (refs 6, 7). Here we show that Trip1 can functionally substitute for Sug1 in yeast, and that both proteins interact in vitro with the thyroid-hormone receptor, and with the transcriptional activation domains of yeast GAL4 and of herpes virus VP16.
7876093	Identification of a protein with homology to hsp90 that binds the type 1 tumor necrosis factor receptor.	The yeast-based two hybrid has been used to identify a novel protein that binds to the intracellular domain of the type 1 receptor for tumor necrosis factor (TNFR-1IC). The TNF receptor-associated protein, TRAP-1, shows strong homology to members of the 90-kDa family of heat shock proteins. After in vitro transcription/translation and 35S labeling, TRAP-1 was precipitated using a fusion protein consisting of glutathione S-transferase and TNFR-1IC, showing that the two proteins directly interact. The ability of deletion mutants of TNFR-1 to interact with TRAP-1 was tested using the two hybrid system. This showed that the amino acid sequences that mediate binding are diffusely distributed outside of the domain in the C terminus of TNFR-1IC that signals cytotoxicity. The 2.4-kilobase TRAP-1 mRNA was variably expressed in skeletal muscle, liver, heart, brain, kidney, pancreas, lung, and placenta. TRAP-1 mRNA was also detected in each of eight different transformed cell lines. Identification of TRAP-1 may be an important step toward defining how TNFR-1, which does not contain protein tyrosine kinase activity, transmits its message to signal transduction pathways.
7877692	A structural basis of the interactions between leucine-rich repeats and protein ligands.	The leucine-rich repeat is a recently characterized structural motif used in molecular recognition processes as diverse as signal transduction, cell adhesion, cell development, DNA repair and RNA processing. We present here the crystal structure at 2.5 A resolution of the complex between ribonuclease A and ribonuclease inhibitor, a protein built entirely of leucine-rich repeats. The unusual non-globular structure of ribonuclease inhibitor, its solvent-exposed parallel beta-sheet and the conformational flexibility of the structure are used in the interaction; they appear to be the principal reasons for the effectiveness of leucine-rich repeats as protein-binding motifs. The structure can serve as a model for the interactions of other proteins containing leucine-rich repeats with their ligands.
7881269	Three-dimensional structure of ectatomin from Ectatomma tuberculatum ant venom.	Two-dimensional 1H NMR techniques were used to determine the spatial structure of ectatomin, a toxin from the venom of the ant Ectatomma tuberculatum. Nearly complete proton resonance assignments for two chains of ectatomin (37 and 34 amino acid residues, respectively) were obtained using 2D TOCSY, DQF-COSY and NOESY experiments. The cross-peak volumes in NOESY spectra were used to define the local structure of the protein and generate accurate proton-proton distance constraints employing the MARDIGRAS program. Disulfide bonds were located by analyzing the global fold of ectatomin, calculated with the distance geometry program DIANA. These data, combined with data on the rate of exchange of amide protons with deuterium, were used to obtain a final set of 20 structures by DIANA. These structures were refined by unrestrained energy minimization using the CHARMm program. The resulting rms deviations over 20 structures (excluding the mobile N- and c-termini of each chain) are 0.75 A for backbone heavy atoms, and 1.25 A for all heavy atoms. The conformations of the two chains are similar. Each chain consists of two alpha-helices and a hinge region of four residues; this forms a hairpin structure which is stabilized by disulfide bridges. The hinge regions of the two chains are connected together by a third disulfide bridge. Thus, ectatomin forms a four-alpha-helical bundle structure.
7889570	Mad-Max transcriptional repression is mediated by ternary complex formation with mammalian homologs of yeast repressor Sin3.	The bHLH-ZIP protein Mad heterodimerizes with Max as a sequence-specific transcriptional repressor. Mad is rapidly induced upon differentiation, and the associated switch from Myc-Max to Mad-Max heterocomplexes seem to repress genes normally activated by Myc-Max. We have identified two related mammalian cDNAs that encode Mad-binding proteins. Both possess sequence homology with the yeast transcription repressor Sin3, including four conserved paired amphipathic helix (PAH) domains. mSin3A and mSin3B bind specifically to Mad and the related protein Mxi1. Mad-Max and mSin3 form ternary complexes in solution that specifically recognize the Mad-Max E box-binding site. Mad-mSin3 association requires PAH2 of mSin3A/mSin3B and the first 25 residues of Mad, which contains a putative amphipathic alpha-helical region. Point mutations in this region eliminate interaction with mSin3 proteins and block Mad transcriptional repression. We suggest that Mad-Max represses transcription by tethering mSin3 to DNA as corepressors and that a transcriptional repression mechanism is conserved from yeast to mammals.
7890674	The APC protein and E-cadherin form similar but independent complexes with alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin.	The tumor suppressor APC protein associates with the cadherin-binding proteins alpha- and beta-catenin. To examine the relationship between cadherin, catenins, and APC, we have tested combinatorial protein-protein interactions in vivo, using a yeast two-hybrid system, and in vitro, using purified proteins. beta-Catenin directly binds to APC at high and low affinity sites. alpha-Catenin cannot directly bind APC but associates with it by binding to beta-catenin. Plakoglobin, also known as gamma-catenin, directly binds to both APC and alpha-catenin and also to the APC-beta-catenin complex, but not directly to beta-catenin. beta-Catenin binds to multiple independent regions of APC, some of which include a previously identified consensus motif and others which contain the centrally located 20 amino acid repeat sequences. The APC binding site on beta-catenin may be discontinuous since neither the carboxyl- nor amino-terminal halves of beta-catenin will independently associate with APC, although the amino-terminal half independently binds alpha-catenin. The catenins bind to APC and E-cadherin in a similar fashion, but APC and E-cadherin do not associate with each other either in the presence or absence of catenins. Thus, APC forms distinct heteromeric complexes containing combinations of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin which are independent from the cadherin-catenin complexes.
7893686	The 2.46 A resolution structure of the pancreatic lipase-colipase complex inhibited by a C11 alkyl phosphonate.	Pancreatic lipase belongs to the serine esterase family and can therefore be inhibited by classical serine reagents such as diisopropyl fluoride or E600. In an attempt to further characterize the active site and catalytic mechanism, we synthesized a C11 alkyl phosphonate compound. This compound is an effective inhibitor of pancreatic lipase. The crystal structure of the pancreatic lipase-colipase complex inhibited by this compound was determined at a resolution of 2.46 A and refined to a final R-factor of 18.3%. As was observed in the case of the structure of the ternary pancreatic lipase-colipase-phospholipid complex, the binding of the ligand induces rearrangements of two surface loops in comparison with the closed structure of the enzyme (van Tilbeurgh et al., 1993b). The inhibitor, which could be clearly observed in the active site, was covalently bound to the active site serine Ser152. A racemic mixture of the inhibitor was used in the crystallization, and there exists evidence that both enantiomers are bound at the active site. The C11 alkyl chain of the first enantiomer fits into a hydrophobic groove and is though to thus mimic the interaction between the leaving fatty acid of a triglyceride substrate and the protein. The alkyl chain of the second enantiomer also has an elongated conformation and interacts with hydrophobic patches on the surface of the open amphipathic lid. This may indicate the location of a second alkyl chain of a triglyceride substrate. Some of the detergent molecules, needed for the crystallization, were also observed in the crystal. Some of them were located at the entrance of the active site, bound to the hydrophobic part of the lid. On the basis of this crystallographic study, a hypothesis about the binding mode of real substrates and the organization of the active site is proposed.
7897663	The crystal structure of porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase in complex with the microbial inhibitor Tendamistat.	The crystal structure of the complex formed between the 498 amino acid residue porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase (PPA) and the 74 amino acid residue inhibitor Tendamistat secreted from Streptomyces tendae, has been determined by multiple isomorphous replacement in a crystal of space group P6(5)22 (a = b = 77.7 A, c = 359.5 A). The model has been refined to an R-factor of 0.194 by Powell minimization applying strong energy constraints based on 17,964 independent reflections in the 7 to 2.5 A resolution range, and obeys standard geometry within 0.011 A in bond lengths and 1.78 degrees in bond angles. The final model consists of all 496 amino acid residues of PPA, 71 amino acid residues of Tendamistat (without the three N-terminal residues), one calcium ion, one chloride ion and 167 water molecules. PPA exhibits the same topological fold in the complex as the uncomplexed PPA recently published by others. About 30% of the water-accessible surface of Tendamistat is in contact with PPA. Four segments of the polypeptide chain, with a total of 15 amino acid residues, are involved in the binding. One segment containing the staggered side-chains of the triplet Trp18, Arg19, Tyr20, typical for this class of inhibitors, binds into the catalytic site. The other segments fill out the groove in the PPA molecule, which also binds the carbohydrate inhibitor acarbose and is assumed to be the substrate-binding region. This extended interaction between Tendamistat and alpha-amylase explains the very high inhibition constant of about 9 x 10(-12) M.
7908906	D-type cyclin-binding regions of proliferating cell nuclear antigen.	Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is an auxiliary protein for DNA polymerase delta and is required for both DNA replication and DNA repair. PCNA forms complexes with D-type cyclins, candidate G1 cyclins in mammalian cells. To better understand the functions of the complexes, we examined interactions between PCNA and D-type cyclins, using in vitro-translated mouse PCNA and mouse cyclin D1 or D3 fused to glutathione S-transferase (GST). Analysis of a set of deletion mutants of PCNA revealed that either the N-terminal (residues 2-64) or the C-terminal (residues 197-228) region is necessary for association with D-type cyclins. The cyclin binding of the chimeric protein of the N-terminal (residues 1-68) or the C-terminal (residues 195-261) region of PCNA and rat DNA polymerase beta which does not bind to the cyclins by itself supports this notion. The purified recombinant mouse PCNA expressed in Escherichia coli bound to the D-type cyclin-GST fusion proteins, thereby suggesting that PCNA binds directly to D-type cyclins, without the requirement of other cellular factors. This is apparently the first report on the structure-function relationship of PCNA which may link DNA replication and DNA repair with cell cycle control.
7912826	Double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase activates transcription factor NF-kappa B by phosphorylating I kappa B.	The induction of interferon (IFN) genes by viruses or double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) requires the assembly of a complex set of transcription factors on responsive DNA elements of IFN gene promoters. One of the factors necessary for regulating IFN-beta gene transcription is nuclear factor NF-kappa B, the activation of which is triggered by dsRNA. It has previously been suggested that the dsRNA-activated p68 protein kinase (PKR) may act as an inducer-receptor, transducing the signal from dsRNA to NF-kappa B through phosphorylation of the inhibitor I kappa B. We present direct evidence that PKR can phosphorylate I kappa B-alpha (MAD-3) and activate NF-kappa B DNA binding activity in vitro. We further show that dsRNA induces an unusual phosphorylated form of I kappa B-alpha. The expression of a transdominant mutant PKR is able to perturb the dsRNA-mediated signaling pathway in vivo, suggesting a role for this kinase in IFN-beta gene induction.
7913882	7B2 is a neuroendocrine chaperone that transiently interacts with prohormone convertase PC2 in the secretory pathway.	The neuroendocrine polypeptide 7B2 is a highly conserved secretory protein selectively present in prohormone-producing cells equipped with a regulated secretory pathway. We find that the amino-terminal half of 7B2 is distantly related to chaperonins, a subclass of molecular chaperones. When incubated in vitro with newly synthesized pituitary proteins, recombinant 7B2 specifically associates with prohormone convertase PC2. Metabolic cell labeling combined with coimmunoprecipitation studies showed that, in vivo, the precursor form of 7B2 interacts with the proform of PC2. Pulse-chase analysis revealed that this association is transient in that it commences early in the secretory pathway, while dissociation in the later stages appears to coincide with the cleavages of 7B2, proPC2, and prohormone. Our results suggest that 7B2 is a novel type of molecular chaperone preventing premature activation of proPC2 in the regulated secretory pathway.
7922031	Structure of human chorionic gonadotropin at 2.6 A resolution from MAD analysis of the selenomethionyl protein.	BACKGROUND: Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a placental hormone that stimulates secretion of the pregnancy-sustaining steroid progesterone. It is a member of a family of glycoprotein hormones that are disulfide-rich heterodimers, with a common alpha-chain and distinctive beta-chains specific to their particular G-protein linked receptors. RESULTS: We have produced recombinant hCG in mammalian cells as the selenomethionyl protein, and have determined its structure (after partial deglycosylation) at 2.6 A resolution from multiwavelength anomalous diffraction (MAD) measurements. Despite only limited sequence similarity (10% identity), the alpha- and beta-subunits of hCG have similar tertiary folds. Each subunit has a cystine-knot motif at its core of extended hairpin loops. There is a very extensive subunit interface featuring two inter-chain beta-sheets and a unique, disulfide-tethered 'arm' from the beta-subunit which 'embraces' the alpha-subunit. The carboxy-terminal peptide of the beta-subunit, which is rich in O-linked sugars, is disordered. CONCLUSIONS: Structural and sequence comparisons indicate an evolutionary homology, albeit remote, between the glycoprotein hormone chains and other cystine-knot proteins, notably platelet-derived growth factor. Segments of the alpha- and beta-chains that have been convincingly implicated in receptor binding by hCG are juxtaposed on one side of the molecule. A glycosylation site implicated in signal transduction but not in binding is also close to the presumed binding site suggesting a possible coupling between ligand binding and signaling. This study with selenomethionyl protein produced in mammalian cells extends the realm of MAD phasing.
7925277	Interaction with calmodulin is required for the function of Spc110p, an essential component of the yeast spindle pole body.	NUF1/SPC110, encoding a nuclear filament-related protein which is a component of the yeast spindle pole body (SPB), has been identified in a screen designed to isolate genes encoding targets of yeast calmodulin. Spc110p interacts with calmodulin by two different criteria and the calmodulin interacting region has been localized within the C-terminus of the protein. Point mutations between residues 898 and 917 further define the calmodulin binding site within this region. Mutations in this domain which abolish calmodulin binding in vitro prevent Spc110p function in vivo, demonstrating that calmodulin binding by Spc110p has important functional consequences. In keeping with a role for calmodulin in Spc110p function, we show that calmodulin localizes to the yeast SPB when cells are prepared under appropriate conditions. Non-functional mutant Spc110 proteins which cannot bind calmodulin are present at lowered steady-state levels in the cell; when their level is increased by elevated gene dosage, partial recovery of Spc110p function is seen. Overexpression of calmodulin suppresses the defect(s) associated with the mutant Spc110 proteins, supporting the notion that Spc110p stability is a consequence of its ability to bind calmodulin and pointing to a direct role for calmodulin in Spc110p function.
7935836	Insulin-dependent stimulation of protein synthesis by phosphorylation of a regulator of 5'-cap function.	The cloning is described of two related human complementary DNAs encoding polypeptides that interact specifically with the translation initiation factor eIF-4E, which binds to the messenger RNA 5'-cap structure. Interaction of these proteins with eIF-4E inhibits translation but treatment of cells with insulin causes one of them to become hyperphosphorylated and dissociate from eIF-4E, thereby relieving the translational inhibition. The action of this new regulator of protein synthesis is therefore modulated by insulin, which acts to stimulate the overall rate of translation and promote cell growth.
7969164	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae checkpoint gene BUB1 encodes a novel protein kinase.	Normal cell multiplication requires that the events of mitosis occur in a carefully ordered fashion. Cells employ checkpoints to prevent cycle progression until some prerequisite step has been completed. To explore the mechanisms of checkpoint enforcement, we previously screened for mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae which are unable to recover from a transient treatment with a benzimidazole-related microtubule inhibitor because they fail to inhibit subsequent cell cycle steps. Two of the identified genes, BUB2 and BUB3, have been cloned and described (M. A. Hoyt, L. Totis, and B. T. Roberts, Cell 66:507-517, 1991). Here we present the characterization of the BUB1 gene and its product. Genetic evidence was obtained suggesting that Bub1 and Bub3 are mutually dependent for function, and immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated a physical association between the two. Sequence analysis of BUB1 revealed a domain with similarity to protein kinases. In vitro experiments confirmed that Bub1 possesses kinase activity; Bub1 was able to autophosphorylate and to catalyze phosphorylation of Bub3. In addition, overproduced Bub1 was found to localize to the cell nucleus.
7972015	Activated Ras interacts with the Ral guanine nucleotide dissociation stimulator.	The yeast two-hybrid system was used to identify proteins that interact with Ras. The H-Ras protein was found to interact with a guanine nucleotide dissociation stimulator (GDS) that has been previously shown to regulate guanine nucleotide exchange on another member of the Ras protein family, Ral. The interaction is mediated by the C-terminal, noncatalytic segment of the RalGDS and can be detected both in vivo, using the two-hybrid system, and in vitro, with purified recombinant proteins. The interaction of the RalGDS C-terminal segment with Ras is specific, dependent on activation of Ras by GTP, and blocked by a mutation that affects Ras effector function. These characteristics are similar to those previously demonstrated for the interaction between Ras and its putative effector, Raf, suggesting that the RalGDS may also be a Ras effector. Consistent with this idea, the RalGDS was found to inhibit the binding of Raf to Ras.
7984244	The X-ray structure of a growth hormone-prolactin receptor complex.	The human pituitary hormones, growth hormone (hGH) and prolactin (hPRL), regulate a large variety of physiological processes, among which are growth and differentiation of muscle, bone and cartilage cells, and lactation. These activities are initiated by hormone-receptor binding. The hGH and hPRL receptors (hGHR and hPRLR, respectively) are single-pass transmembrane receptors from class 1 of the haematopoietic receptor superfamily. This classification is based on sequence similarity in their extracellular domains, notably a highly conserved pentapeptide, the so-called 'WSXWS box', the function of which is controversial. All ligands in class 1 activate their respective receptors by clustering mechanisms. In the case of hGH, activation involves receptor homodimerization in a sequential process: the active ternary complex containing one ligand and two receptor molecules is formed by association of a receptor molecule to an intermediate 1:1 complex. hPRL does not bind to the hGH receptor, but hGH binds to both the hGHR and hPRLR, and mutagenesis studies have shown that the receptor-binding sites on hGH overlap. We present here the crystal structure of the 1:1 complex of hGH bound to the extracellular domain of the hPRLR. Comparisons with the hGH-hGHR complex reveal how hGH can bind to the two distinctly different receptor binding surfaces.
7994573	The structure of a complex between the NC10 antibody and influenza virus neuraminidase and comparison with the overlapping binding site of the NC41 antibody.	BACKGROUND: While it is well known that different antibodies can be produced against a particular antigen, and even against a particular site on an antigen, up until now there have been no structural studies of cross-reacting antibodies of this type. One antibody-antigen complex whose structure is known is that of the influenza virus antigen, neuraminidase, in complex with the NC41 antibody. Another anti-neuraminidase antibody, NC10, binds to an overlapping site on the antigen. The structure of the complex formed by this antibody with neuraminidase is described here and compared with the NC41-containing complex. RESULTS: The crystal structure of the NC10 Fab-neuraminidase complex has been refined to a nominal resolution of 2.5A. Approximately 80% of the binding site of the NC10 antibody on neuraminidase overlaps with that of the NC41 antibody. The epitope residues of neuraminidase are often engaged in quite different interactions with the two antibodies. Although the NC10 and NC41 antibodies have identical amino acid sequences within the first complementarity determining region of their heavy chains, this is not the basis of the cross-reaction. CONCLUSIONS: The capacity of two different proteins to bind to the same target structure on a third protein need not be based on the existence of identical or homologous amino acid sequences within those proteins. As we have demonstrated, amino acid residues on the common target structure may be in quite different chemical environments, and may also adopt different conformations within two protein-protein complexes.
8016121	Two cellular proteins that bind to wild-type but not mutant p53.	p53 is a tumor-suppressor protein that can activate and repress transcription. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we identified two previously uncharacterized human proteins, designated 53BP1 and 53BP2, that bind to p53. 53BP1 shows no significant homology to proteins in available databases, whereas 53BP2 contains two adjacent ankyrin repeats and a Src homology 3 domain. In vitro binding analyses indicate that both of these proteins bind to the central domain of p53 (residues 80-320) required for site-specific DNA binding. Consistent with this finding, p53 cannot bind simultaneously to 53BP1 or 53BP2 and to a DNA fragment containing a consensus p53 binding site. Unlike other cellular proteins whose binding to p53 has been characterized, both 53BP1 and 53BP2 bind to the wild-type but not to two mutant p53 proteins identified in human tumors, suggesting that binding is dependent on p53 conformation. The characteristics of these interactions argue that 53BP1 and 53BP2 are involved in some aspect of p53-mediated tumor suppression.
8027997	Structure determination of an Fab fragment that neutralizes human rhinovirus 14 and analysis of the Fab-virus complex.	The crystal structure of Fab17-IA, an antigen-binding fragment from a murine immunoglobulin that neutralizes human rhinovirus 14 (HRV14), has been solved to 2.7 A resolution. Fab17-IA crystallized into three different space groups depending upon the method used to purify the intact antibody. The structure was determined by use of molecular and isomorphous replacement methods. The current model has a crystallographic R-factor of approximately 19% for 10,192 independent reflections between 8 and 2.7 A. Correlation coefficient calculations showed that the Fab17-IA structure can be fit into the Fab17-IA/HRV14 image reconstruction density to within 5 A positional accuracy and to within a few degrees of rotation. The resulting interface of the docked antibody was examined and showed extensive charge and shape complementarity with the virus surface that was supported by site-directed mutagenesis experiments. The success of this approach validates the utility of combining X-ray crystallography with cryo-electron microscopy of complex macromolecular assemblies.
8034624	Activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity by Cdc42Hs binding to p85.	The Ras-like GTPase Cdc42 is essential for cell polarity and bud site assembly in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by regulating cell cycle-dependent reorganization of cortical cytoskeletal elements. However, its role in mammalian cells is unknown. To identify potential effectors of Cdc42Hs, we incubated lysates from NIH 3T3 fibroblasts or PC12 cells with immobilized glutathione S-transferase (GST)-Cdc42Hs fusion proteins bound to different guanine nucleotides and observed a specific association between the 85-kDa subunit (p85) of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) and GTP gamma S (guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio)triphosphate)-bound GST-Cdc42Hs. Recombinant p85 formed a complex with GTP gamma S-bound GST-Cdc42Hs and with a GTPase-defective GTP-bound GST-Cdc42Hs-Q61L mutant, but not with a GTP gamma S-bound, effector domain GST-Cdc42HsT35A mutant. Both the Rho-GAP homology domain of p85 and the Cdc42Hs-GAP competitively inhibited the binding of recombinant p85 to Cdc42Hs. In addition, PI 3-kinase activity immunoprecipitated from cell lysates with anti-p85 antibody was stimulated 2-4-fold by GST-Cdc42-GTP gamma S. Similar interactions were observed between p85 and GST-Rac1-GTP gamma S but not between p85 and GST-RhoA-GTP gamma S. These findings suggest that PI 3-kinase, through the Rho-GAP homology domain of p85, can couple to the effector domain of Cdc42Hs and that p85 may be a target for the GTP-bound forms of Cdc42Hs and Rac1.
8035810	Critical binding and regulatory interactions between Ras and Raf occur through a small, stable N-terminal domain of Raf and specific Ras effector residues.	Genetic and biochemical evidence suggests that the Ras protooncogene product regulates the activation of the Raf kinase pathway, leading to the proposal that Raf is a direct mitogenic effector of activated Ras. Here we report the use of a novel competition assay to measure in vitro the relative affinity of the c-Raf-1 regulatory region for Ras-GTP, Ras-GDP, and 10 oncogenic and effector mutant Ras proteins. c-Raf-1 associates with normal Ras and the oncogenic V12 and L61 forms of Ras with equal affinity. The moderately transforming mutant Ras[E30K31] also bound to the c-Raf-1 regulatory region with normal affinity. Transformation-defective Ras effector mutants Ras[N33], Ras[S35], and Ras[N38] bound poorly. In contrast, the transformation defective Ras[G26I27] and Ras[E45] mutants bound to the c-Raf-1 regulatory region with nearly wild-type affinity. A stable, high-affinity Ras-binding region of c-Raf-1 was mapped to a 99-amino-acid subfragment of the first 257 residues. The smallest Ras-binding region identified consisted of N-terminal residues 51 to 131, although stable expression of the domain and high-affinity binding were improved by the presence of residues 132 to 149. Deletion of the Raf zinc finger region did not reduce Ras-binding affinity, while removal of the first 50 amino acids greatly increased affinity. Phosphorylation of Raf[1-149] by protein kinase A on serine 43 resulted in significant inhibiton of Ras binding. demonstrating that the mechanism of cyclic AMP downregulation results through structural changes occurring exclusively in this small Ras-binding domain.
8036496	Interaction of Rac with p67phox and regulation of phagocytic NADPH oxidase activity.	Rho and Rac, two members of the Ras superfamily of guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-binding proteins, regulate a variety of signal transduction pathways in eukaryotic cells. Upon stimulation of phagocytic cells, Rac enhances the activity of the enzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced) (NADPH) oxidase, resulting in the production of superoxide radicals. Activation of the NADPH oxidase requires the assembly of a multimolecular complex at the plasma membrane consisting of two integral membrane proteins, gp91phox and p21phox, and two cytosolic proteins, p67phox and p47phox. Rac1 interacted directly with p67phox in a GTP-dependent manner. Modified forms of Rac with mutations in the effector site did not stimulate oxidase activity or bind to p67phox. Thus, p67phox appears to be the Rac effector protein in the NADPH oxidase complex.
8052633	RAG-1 interacts with the repeated amino acid motif of the human homologue of the yeast protein SRP1.	Genes for immunoglobulins and T-cell receptor are generated by a process known as V(D)J recombination. This process is highly regulated and mediated by the recombination activating proteins RAG-1 and RAG-2. By the use of the two-hybrid protein interaction system, we isolated a human protein that specifically interacts with RAG-1. This protein is the human homologue of the yeast SRP1 (suppressor of a temperature-sensitive RNA polymerase I mutation). The SRP1-1 mutation is an allele-specific dominant suppressor of a temperature-sensitive mutation in the zinc binding domain of the 190-kDa subunit of Saccharomyces cerevisiae RNA polymerase I. The human SRP cDNA clone was used to screen a mouse cDNA library. We obtained a 3.9-kbp cDNA clone encoding the mouse SRP1. The open reading frame of this cDNA encodes a 538-amino acid protein with eight degenerate repeats of 40-45 amino acids each. The mouse and human SRP1 are 98% identical, while the mouse and yeast SRP1 have 48% identity. After cotransfection of the genes encoding RAG-1 and human SRP1 into 293T cells, a stable complex was evident. Deletion analysis indicated that the region of the SRP1 protein interacting with RAG-1 involved four repeats. The domain of RAG-1 that associates with SRP1 mapped N-terminal to the zinc finger domain. Because this region of RAG-1 is not required for recombination and SRP1 appears to be bound to the nuclear envelope, we suggest that this interaction helps to localize RAG-1.
8066444	Crystal structure of a catalytic antibody with a serine protease active site.	The three-dimensional structure of an unusually active hydrolytic antibody with a phosphonate transition state analog (hapten) bound to the active site has been solved to 2.5 A resolution. The antibody (17E8) catalyzes the hydrolysis of norleucine and methionine phenyl esters and is selective for amino acid esters that have the natural alpha-carbon L configuration. A plot of the pH-dependence of the antibody-catalyzed reaction is bell-shaped with an activity maximum at pH 9.5; experiments on mechanism lend support to the formation of a covalent acyl-antibody intermediate. The structural and kinetic data are complementary and support a hydrolytic mechanism for the antibody that is remarkably similar to that of the serine proteases. The antibody active site contains a Ser-His dyad structure proximal to the phosphorous atom of the bound hapten that resembles two of the three components of the Ser-His-Asp catalytic triad of serine proteases. The antibody active site also contains a Lys residue to stabilize oxyanion formation, and a hydrophobic binding pocket for specific substrate recognition of norleucine and methionine side chains. The structure identifies active site residues that mediate catalysis and suggests specific mutations that may improve the catalytic efficiency of the antibody. This high resolution structure of a catalytic antibody-hapten complex shows that antibodies can converge on active site structures that have arisen through natural enzyme evolution.
8068621	Structural studies of metal binding by inositol monophosphatase: evidence for two-metal ion catalysis.	The structure of inositol monophosphatase has been determined to 2.60 A resolution in complexes with Mn2+ and with Mn2+ and phosphate. In the Mn2+ complex, three metal cations and one Cl were bound in the active site on each of the two subunits of the enzyme. Ligands to the three metals include the side chains of Glu 70, Asp 90, Asp 93, and Asp 220, t he carbonyl group of Ile 92, several solvent molecules and the chloride, which is a ligand to each of the cations. When phosphate is soaked into these Mn2+ cocrystals, one of the three Mn2+ ions is expelled from the active site, leaving metal ions with octahedral and tetrahedral coordination geometry. In addition, the structure of apoinositol monophosphatase was determined to 2.5 A resolution. Residues 70-75, a two-turn helical segment which is involved in metal coordination, moves away from the metal binding site by 2-3 A in the absence of cations. Residues 30-40, which wrap around the metal binding site and interact with the metal indirectly through solvent molecules and protein ligands to the metal, become disordered in the absence of metal. In various metal complexes, segmental mobility is also observed in the residues which form the metal binding sites. The results of these studies of the interaction of inositol monophosphatase with cations suggest that the enzyme accomplishes phosphate ester hydrolysis using two metal ions, one with octahedral and one with tetrahedral coordination geometry. Broad metal-binding specificity appears to result from extensive flexibility in several of the protein segments which contribute metal ligands, from the presence of alternate metal ligands and from metal coordination spheres which include water molecules.
8087846	Ubiquitin-dependent c-Jun degradation in vivo is mediated by the delta domain.	The role of the ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis system in c-Jun breakdown was investigated. Using in vitro experiments and a novel in vivo assay that utilizes molecularly-tagged ubiquitin and c-Jun proteins, it was shown that c-Jun, but not its transforming counterpart, retroviral v-Jun, can be efficiently multiubiquitinated. Consistently, v-Jun has a longer half-life than c-Jun. Mutagenesis experiments indicate that the reason for the escape of v-Jun from multiubiquitination and its resulting stabilization is the deletion of the delta domain, a stretch of 27 amino acids that is present in c-Jun but not in v-Jun. c-Jun sequences containing the delta domain, when transferred to the bacterial beta-galactosidase protein, function as a cis-acting ubiquitination and degradation signal. The correlation between transforming ability and the escape from ubiquitin-dependent degradation described here suggests a novel route to oncogenesis.
8107774	A brain serine/threonine protein kinase activated by Cdc42 and Rac1.	A new brain serine/threonine protein kinase may be a target for the p21ras-related proteins Cdc42 and Rac1. The kinase sequence is related to that of the yeast protein STE20, implicated in pheromone-response pathways. The kinase complexes specifically with activated (GTP-bound) p21, inhibiting p21 GTPase activity and leading to kinase autophosphorylation and activation. Autophosphorylated kinase has a decreased affinity for Cdc42/Rac, freeing the p21 for further stimulatory activities or downregulation by GTPase-activating proteins. This bimolecular interaction provides a model for studying p21 regulation of mammalian phosphorylation signalling pathways.
8132330	Lactoferrin binds to porins OmpF and OmpC in Escherichia coli.	Lactoferrin (Lf) is an iron-binding antimicrobial protein present in milk and on mucosal surfaces, with a suggested role in preimmune host defense. Certain strains of Escherichia coli (bacterial whole cells) demonstrate specific interaction with 125I-labeled Lf. A band with a mass of approximately 37 kDa, which was reactive with horseradish peroxidase-labeled Lf, was identified in the boiled cell envelope and outer membrane preparations of an Lf-binding E. coli strain, E34663, and a non-Lf-binding strain, HH45, by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and Western blotting (immunoblotting). Such a band was not detected in the unboiled native cell envelope and outer membrane preparations. The molecular mass and the property of heat modifiability suggested that the Lf-binding proteins were porins. The native trimeric form of porin OmpF isolated from strain B6 and its dissociated monomeric form both reacted with horseradish peroxidase-labeled Lf and with monoclonal antibodies specific for OmpF. Furthermore, by using E. coli constructs with defined porin phenotypes, OmpF and OmpC were identified as the Lf-binding proteins by urea-SDS-PAGE and Western blotting and by 125I-Lf binding studies with intact bacteria. These data establish that Lf binds to porins, a class of well-conserved molecules common in E. coli and many other gram-negative bacteria. However, in certain strains of E. coli these pore-forming proteins are shielded from Lf interaction.
8137421	JNK1: a protein kinase stimulated by UV light and Ha-Ras that binds and phosphorylates the c-Jun activation domain.	The ultraviolet (UV) response of mammalian cells is characterized by a rapid and selective increase in gene expression mediated by AP-1 and NF-kappa B. The effect on AP-1 transcriptional activity results, in part, from enhanced phosphorylation of the c-Jun NH2-terminal activation domain. Here, we describe the molecular cloning and characterization of JNK1, a distant relative of the MAP kinase group that is activated by dual phosphorylation at Thr and Tyr during the UV response. Significantly, Ha-Ras partially activates JNK1 and potentiates the activation caused by UV. JNK1 binds to the c-Jun transactivation domain and phosphorylates it on Ser-63 and Ser-73. Thus, JNK1 is a component of a novel signal transduction pathway that is activated by oncoproteins and UV irradiation. These properties indicate that JNK1 activation may play an important role in tumor promotion.
8146144	The zinc finger region of the adenovirus E1A transactivating domain complexes with the TATA box binding protein.	The 289R E1A protein of adenovirus transactivates a variety of viral and cellular promoters through protein-protein interactions. In earlier studies, mutational analyses of the E1A transactivating domain identified residues that are critical for transactivation and implied that the zinc finger region of the transactivating domain binds a transcription factor. Also, the E1A activation domain was found to bind to the TATA box binding protein (TBP) in vitro. Here, we tested the significance of the E1A-TBP interaction for E1A transactivation by analyzing the effects of conservative substitutions at each of the 49 residues of the E1A activation domain. Seven of the substitutions significantly diminished TBP binding in vitro. All of these were in the zinc finger region and were defective for transactivation in vivo. The perfect correlation between reduced TBP binding and transactivation argues strongly that a direct interaction between the E1A activation domain and TBP is critical to the mechanism of E1A activation. This genetic analysis leads us to further suggest that another factor, which is limiting, is also necessary for E1A-mediated transactivation.
8164677	Genetic identification of residues involved in association of alpha and beta G-protein subunits.	The GPA1, STE4, and STE18 genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encode the alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, respectively, of a G protein involved in the mating response pathway. We have found that mutations G124D, W136G, W136R, and delta L138 and double mutations W136R L138F and W136G S151C of the Ste4 protein cause constitutive activation of the signaling pathway. The W136R L138F and W136G S151C mutant Ste4 proteins were tested in the two-hybrid protein association assay and found to be defective in association with the Gpa1 protein. A mutation at position E307 of the Gpa1 protein both suppresses the constitutive signaling phenotype of some mutant Ste4 proteins and allows the mutant alpha subunit to physically associate with a specific mutant G beta subunit. The mutation in the Gpa1 protein is adjacent to the hinge, or switch, region that is required for the conformational change which triggers subunit dissociation, but the mutation does not affect the interaction of the alpha subunit with the wild-type beta subunit. Yeast cells constructed to contain only the mutant alpha and beta subunits mate and respond to pheromones, although they exhibit partial induction of the pheromone response pathway. Because the ability of the modified G alpha subunit to suppress the Ste4 mutations is allele specific, it is likely that the residues defined by this analysis play a direct role in G-protein subunit association.
8170944	Cation-promoted association of a regulatory and target protein is controlled by protein phosphorylation.	A central question in molecular biology concerns the means by which a regulatory protein recognizes different targets. IIIGlc, the glucose-specific phosphocarrier protein of the bacterial phosphotransferase system, is also the central regulatory element of the PTS. Binding of unphosphorylated IIIGlc inhibits several non-PTS proteins, but there is little or no sequence similarity between IIIGlc binding sites on different target proteins. The crystal structure of Escherichia coli IIIGlc bound to one of its regulatory targets, glycerol kinase, has been refined at 2.6-A resolution in the presence of products, adenosine diphosphate and glycerol 3-phosphate. Structural and kinetic analyses show that the complex of IIIGlc with glycerol kinase creates an intermolecular Zn(II) binding site with ligation identical to that of the zinc peptidase thermolysin. The zinc is coordinated by the two active-site histidines of IIIGlc, a glutamate of glycerol kinase, and a water molecule. Zn(II) at 0.01 and 0.1 mM decreases the Ki of IIIGlc for glycerol kinase by factors of about 15 and 60, respectively. The phosphorylation of one of the histidines of IIIGlc, in its alternative role as phosphocarrier, provides an elegant means of controlling the cation-enhanced protein-protein regulatory interaction. The need for the target protein to supply only one metal ligand may account for the lack of sequence similarity among the regulatory targets of IIIGlc.
8194524	Heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor, which acts as the diphtheria toxin receptor, forms a complex with membrane protein DRAP27/CD9, which up-regulates functional receptors and diphtheria toxin sensitivity.	DRAP27, the monkey homolog of human CD9 antigen (DRAP27/CD9) and diphtheria toxin receptor (DTR) were expressed in mouse L cells. L cells transfected transiently with both DRAP27/CD9 and DTR cDNA bound approximately 10 times more diphtheria toxin (DT) than cells transfected with DTR alone. Stable L cell transfectants expressing both DTR and DRAP27/CD9 (LCH-1 cells) had 15 times more cell surface DT-binding sites and were 20 times more sensitive to DT than were stable L cell transfectants expressing DTR alone (LH-1 cells). Increased DT-binding and DT sensitivity were not due to increased DTR transcription or increased cell surface DTR protein. Co-immunoprecipitation of DRAP27/CD9 with DTR and chemical cross-linking suggest a tight association of these membrane-bound proteins. In addition, the identity of DTR and a growth factor (HB-EGF) was established. Immobilized DT specifically adsorbed HB-EGF precursor solubilized from transfected L cells and [125I]DT bound to immobilized recombinant HB-EGF. We conclude that DRAP27/CD9 associates tightly with DTR/HB-EGF and up-regulates the number of functional DTRs and DT sensitivity, and that HB-EGF is identical to DTR.
8207801	Inhibition of p53 DNA binding by human papillomavirus E6 proteins.	Transformation by the human papillomavirus (HPV) early gene products, E6 and E7, involves their interaction with cellular proteins p53 and Rb. Using glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins, we found that HPV E6 bound human p53 and that the relative efficiency of binding varied such that the GST-HPV type 16 E6 (16E6) protein bound p53 with highest affinity, followed by GST-31E6, GST-18E6, and GST-11E6. The GST-E6 fusion proteins were sufficient for binding p53 purified from a baculovirus expression system as well as in vitro translation sources, while no association was observed with GST-18E7 or a GST-16E6 mutant bearing a five-amino-acid deletion in E6. When the site-specific DNA binding activity of p53 was examined in the presence of GST-E6 proteins, an inhibition of DNA binding was observed. The degree of inhibition correlated with the relative affinity of different E6 proteins for p53; thus, GST-16E6 was the most potent inhibitor of p53 DNA binding activity, and GST-11E6 was the least effective. Prevention of p53 DNA binding is likely to play a role in the abrogation of the transcriptional activity of p53 by HPV E6 and provides a further mechanism for E6 disruption of p53 growth suppressor function in addition to its role in directing specific degradation of p53 through the ubiquitin-mediated pathway. The variation in inhibition of DNA binding seen with the various E6 proteins may thus contribute to the differences in oncogenic potential seen among the HPV types.
8218161	How the anti-(metal chelate) antibody CHA255 is specific for the metal ion of its antigen: X-ray structures for two Fab'/hapten complexes with different metals in the chelate.	Antibodies with bound metal-chelate haptens provide new means for exploiting the diverse properties of metallic elements. The murine monoclonal antibody CHA255 (IgG1 lambda) binds the metal-chelate hapten indium (III)-4-[N'-(2-hydroxyethyl)thioureido]-L-benzyl-EDTA (designated In-EOTUBE) with high affinity (K(a) = 1.1 x 10(10) M-1). Antibody binding is highly specific for the indium chelate; the affinity decreases as much as 10(4) with other metals, even those having ionic radii close to indium. To better understand this selectivity, the crystal structure of the antigen-binding fragment (Fab') of CHA255 complexed with its hapten, In(III)-EOTUBE, was determined by molecular replacement and refined at 2.2-A resolution. The structure of CHA255 Fab' complexed with Fe(III)-EOTUBE was also determined and refined at 2.8-A resolution. In both structures, the hapten's EDTA moiety is half-buried near the center of the complementarity-determining regions (CDR's). Five of the six CDR's on the Fab' interact with the hapten through protein side-chain atoms (but not main-chain atoms). A novel feature of the In-EOTUBE/Fab' complex is coordination of the indium by N epsilon of one histidine from the heavy chain's third CDR (distance = 2.4 A). The histidine coordination is not observed in the Fe-EOTUBE/Fab' complex, due mainly to a slightly different hapten conformation that reduces metal accessibility; this may partially explain the 20-fold lower affinity of CHA255 for iron hapten. An unexpected feature of the Fab' overall is an elbow angle of 193 degrees (the angle between the pseudodyad axes of the Fab's constant and variable domains).
8221891	Drosophila TAFII40 interacts with both a VP16 activation domain and the basal transcription factor TFIIB.	Enhancement of RNA polymerase II transcription by the viral transactivator VP16 requires the TFIID complex, which consists of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and TBP-associated factors (TAFs). Here we report the molecular cloning, expression, and biochemical characterization of Drosophila TAFII40 (dTAFII40), a subunit of TFIID. In vitro protein-protein interaction assays revealed direct binding between dTAFII40 and a 39 amino acid VP16 activation domain. In addition, affinity chromatography indicated a direct binding of the basal factor TFIIB to immobilized dTAFII40. Since VP16 also binds TFIIB, our results suggest a ternary interaction among an activator, a coactivator, and a basal transcription factor. Antibodies directed against dTAFII40 inhibited activation by GAL4-VP16 without affecting basal transcription. These results, taken together with previous studies of Sp1 and dTAFII110, establish that different activators interact with distinct TAFs in the TFIID complex and that TAFs can contact both activators and basal factors.
8224842	Identification of an oncoprotein- and UV-responsive protein kinase that binds and potentiates the c-Jun activation domain.	The activity of c-Jun is regulated by phosphorylation. Various stimuli including transforming oncogenes and UV light, induce phosphorylation of serines 63 and 73 in the amino-terminal activation domain of c-Jun and thereby potentiate its trans-activation function. We identified a serine/threonine kinase whose activity is stimulated by the same signals that stimulate the amino-terminal phosphorylation of c-Jun. This novel c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK), whose major form is 46 kD, binds to a specific region within the c-Jun trans-activation domain and phosphorylates serines 63 and 73. Phosphorylation results in dissociation of the c-Jun-JNK complex. Mutations that disrupt the kinase-binding site attenuate the response of c-Jun to Ha-Ras and UV. Therefore the binding of JNK to c-Jun is of regulatory importance and suggests a mechanism through which protein kinase cascades can specifically modulate the activity of distinct nuclear targets.
8242750	Cdi1, a human G1 and S phase protein phosphatase that associates with Cdk2.	We used the interaction trap, a yeast genetic selection for interacting proteins, to isolate human cyclin-dependent kinase interactor 1 (Cdi1). In yeast, Cdi1 interacts with cyclin-dependent kinases, including human Cdc2, Cdk2, and Cdk3, but not with Ckd4. In HeLa cells, Cdi1 is expressed at the G1 to S transition, and the protein forms stable complexes with Cdk2. Cdi1 bears weak sequence similarity to known tyrosine and dual specificity phosphatases. In vitro, Cdi1 removes phosphate from tyrosine residues in model substrates, but a mutant protein that bears a lesion in the putative active site cysteine does not. Overexpression of wild-type Cdi1 delays progression through the cell cycle in yeast and HeLa cells; delay is dependent on Cdi1 phosphatase activity. These experiments identify Cdi1 as a novel type of protein phosphatase that forms complexes with cyclin-dependent kinases.
8246987	Phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase and PI 4-kinase binding to the CD4-p56lck complex: the p56lck SH3 domain binds to PI 3-kinase but not PI 4-kinase.	CD4 serves as a receptor for major histocompatibility complex class II antigens and as a receptor for the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) viral coat protein gp120. It is coupled to the protein-tyrosine kinase p56lck, an interaction necessary for an optimal response of certain T cells to antigen. In addition to the protein-tyrosine kinase domain, p56lck possesses Src homology 2 and 3 (SH2 and SH3) domains as well as a unique N-terminal region. The mechanism by which p56lck generates intracellular signals is unclear, although it has the potential to interact with various downstream molecules. One such downstream target is the lipid kinase phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase), which has been found to bind to activated pp60src and receptor-tyrosine kinases. In this study, we verified that PI 3-kinase associates with the CD4:p56lck complex as judged by the presence of PI 3-phosphate generated from anti-CD4 immunoprecipitates and detected by high-pressure liquid chromatographic analysis. However, surprisingly, CD4-p56lck was also found to associate with another lipid kinase, phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI 4-kinase). The level of associated PI 4-kinase was generally higher than PI 3-kinase activity. HIV-1 gp120 and antibody-mediated cross-linking induced a 5- to 10-fold increase in the level of CD4-associated PI 4- and PI 3-kinases. The use of glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins carrying Lck-SH2, Lck-SH3, and Lck-SH2/SH3 domains showed PI 3-kinase binding to the SH3 domain of p56lck, an interaction facilitated by the presence of an adjacent SH2 domain. PI 4-kinase bound to neither the SH2 nor the SH3 domain of p56lck. CD4-p56lck contributes PI 3- and PI 4-kinase to the activation process of T cells and may play a role in HIV-1-induced immune defects.
8253717	Cloning and expression of a human CDC42 GTPase-activating protein reveals a functional SH3-binding domain.	CDC42, a member of the Rho family of small GTP-binding proteins, regulates cytoskeletal rearrangements required for cell division. Activating mutations in CDC42 that are refractory to GTPase activation confer a phenotype of large, multinucleated cells. Like other small GTP-binding proteins, CDC42 is activated by a guanosine exchange factor and inactivated by a GTPase-activating protein (GAP). An unidentified 25-kDa platelet protein has been shown to function as a specific CDC42GAP. Here we report the cloning of a cDNA encoding this GAP from a human platelet-precursor cell line. Sequence analysis reveals the presence of three consensus box regions characteristic of rhoGAPs. A glutathione S-transferase fusion protein containing the three boxes derived from the new clone strongly stimulated the GTPase activity of CDC42 but was much less effective on other Rho proteins. This indicates that the cDNA clone encodes a specific GAP for CDC42. Sequence analysis also reveals a potential proline-rich Src homology 3 (SH3)-binding domain preceding the first consensus box. Binding experiments show that this motif can interact with the SH3 domains of p85 alpha and of c-Src. Thus, CDC42GAP may function as a link between CDC42 and other signaling pathways.
8253784	Contiguous binding and inhibitory sites on kininogens required for the inhibition of platelet calpain.	Both high molecular weight kininogen (HK) and low molecular weight kininogens (LK) are potent tight binding inhibitors of platelet calpain (Ki = 2 nM), but the molecular basis for the inhibitory function is not well delineated. The amino acid sequences of the calpain inhibitory domain 2 from human and rat HK were compared for homology with the noninhibitory domains from human and rat domain 3 and from domain 2 of rat T-kininogen, and two areas of nonconserved differences were detected. Computer three-dimensional models were constructed on a template built using the x-ray crystallographic data for cystatin, an evolutionary precursor of HK. Two nonconserved regions in the calpain inhibitory domains flank the highly conserved motif QVVAG to form a continuous surface for interaction with cysteine proteases. Three peptide sequences, components of the modeled surface, were chosen for synthesis from HK D-2: VHPISTQSPDLE (peptide 146-156, NH2-terminal), CTDNAYIDIQLRIASFSQNC (peptide 229-248, COOH-terminal), and CQRQVVAGLNFRIC (185-189, central) containing QVVAG. This last peptide differs from the natural sequence by substitutions of A185C and T195C. Peptides 185-198 and 229-248 were folded by air oxidation of their cysteine residues and then tested for their ability to inhibit calpain and papain. The folded peptide 229-248 inhibited calpain with an IC50 35 microM and unfolding reduced this effect. The folded peptide 185-198 did not inhibit calpain, but when preincubated with calpain, could block the inhibition by HK indicating a probable enzyme binding site. Peptide 146-157 did not inhibit calpain but could inhibit papain with an IC50 of 20 microM. We have thus defined separate binding and inhibitory sequences on HK which form a contiguous surface for thiol protease interactions.
8253796	Purification and characterization of the receptor for pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide.	Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a 38-amino acid peptide (PACAP38) or a truncated peptide with the same 27 amino-terminal residues (PACAP27). The PACAP receptor was solubilized from bovine brain membranes with digitonin and purified 30-fold by the combination of DEAE-Toyopearl and hydroxylapatite chromatographic analyses. The partially purified PACAP receptors were mixed with biotinylated PACAP27 to form receptor-ligand complexes and then adsorbed onto avidin-agarose. The adsorbed PACAP receptors were eluted with an acidic buffer containing 1.0 M NaCl (pH 4.0). The eluted receptors were purified further by hydroxylapatite and gel filtration chromatography. A single protein band with a M(r) = 55,000-60,000 was found in the final preparation by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and silver staining. Affinity labeling of the purified receptors with 125I-PACAP27 labeled the M(r) 55,000-60,000 protein specifically. The dissociation constant and the specific activity of the purified receptors were 25.8 pM and 17.2 nmol of ligand binding per mg of protein, respectively. Inhibitory constants determined by competitive binding experiments were 30.0 pM for PACAP27, 4.6 pM for PACAP38, and 37.3 nM for vasoactive intestinal peptide. Therefore, the purified PACAP receptor retained high affinity and ligand specificity. The sequence of the amino-terminal 29 residues was derived from the purified receptor.
8253797	Transcriptional enhancer factor-1 in cardiac myocytes interacts with an alpha 1-adrenergic- and beta-protein kinase C-inducible element in the rat beta-myosin heavy chain promoter.	In cultured rat cardiac myocytes, a 20-base pair sequence (-215/-196) of the rat beta-myosin heavy chain (MHC) promoter mediates induction by both alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation and a constitutively activated beta-protein kinase C (PKC), and binds cardiac myocyte nuclear factor(s) through an "enhancer core" element (5'-TGTGG-TATG-3') (Kariya, K., Karns, L. R., and Simpson, P. C. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, in press). Here, we report identification of this enhancer core binding factor as the rat homologue of transcriptional enhancer factor-1 (TEF-1), a human transcription factor for viral enhancers. In gel mobility shift and immunoblot analyses, the myocyte factor and human TEF-1 were indistinguishable in terms of sequence recognition, mobility, and immunoreactivity. Furthermore, DNA binding activity for the beta-MHC enhancer core and TEF-1 immunoreactivity correlated closely. These results are the first to suggest a role for TEF-1 in transcriptional regulation by PKC. The data also provide direct evidence for interaction of TEF-1 with the beta-MHC promoter, supporting a function for TEF-1 in regulation of cellular gene expression, as well as viral, and outline a pathway for alpha 1-adrenergic regulation of beta-MHC gene transcription in cardiac myocytes.
8288605	Identification of discrete structural domains in the retinoblastoma protein. Amino-terminal domain is required for its oligomerization.	To characterize the protein product of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene biochemically, a recombinant human protein was produced in an Escherichia coli expression system. The full-length protein, p110RB, and an amino-terminal truncated form, p56RB, were expressed and purified to near homogeneity by conventional chromatographic procedures. To probe the structural organization of the retinoblastoma protein the purified proteins were subjected to partial proteolysis by trypsin, chymotrypsin, and subtilisin. Four discrete structural domains were revealed in p110RB by this method. Two of these structural domains, found in both p56RB and p110RB, were mapped to the carboxyl-terminal half of the protein and corresponded to the SV40 large T binding domains defined previously by genetic methods. In addition two distinct domains in the amino-terminal half of the protein were also defined. A potential role for these newly defined amino-terminal domains was uncovered upon analysis of the purified proteins by nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. p110RB revealed multiple bands by this method, suggesting the formation of oligomeric structures by the protein, while this property was not observed for p56RB. Electron microscopy of p110RB revealed linearly extended, macromolecular structures, further supporting the formation of homologous higher order structures by the full-length retinoblastoma protein. Analysis of the interactions between retinoblastoma protein molecules using the yeast two-hybrid system confirmed that the retinoblastoma protein could self-associate and that this association was mediated by interactions between the amino- and carboxyl-terminal ends of the protein. These observations suggest that the retinoblastoma protein contains multiple structural domains with the amino-terminal domains being required for oligomerization of the full-length protein.
8290554	G proteins of the G12 family are activated via thromboxane A2 and thrombin receptors in human platelets.	Using subtype-specific antisera, we were able to identify the recently described alpha subunits of G12 and G13 in platelet membranes as 43-kDa proteins. Activation of the thromboxane A2 and the thrombin receptors in platelet membranes led to increased incorporation of the photoreactive GTP analogue [alpha-32P]GTP azidoanilide into immunoprecipitated alpha 12 and alpha 13, indicating that both receptors couple to G12 and G13. In addition, both activated receptors were demonstrated to couple to one or more members of the Gq family. In the absence of receptor agonists, incorporation of [alpha-32P]GTP azidoanilide into alpha 12 and alpha 13 was low over a long time period (up to 45 min) due to an obviously low basal nucleotide exchange rate, whereas an agonist-stimulated photolabeling of alpha 12 and alpha 13 could be observed after 4-8 min and reached a maximum after 30-45 min. Effective activation of G12 and G13 via the thromboxane A2 and the thrombin receptors was not dependent on the presence of GDP. Our results provide evidence that G12 and G13 play a functional role in transmembrane signal transduction and suggest that both proteins are involved in pathways leading to platelet activation.
8290595	Physical association and functional antagonism between the p65 subunit of transcription factor NF-kappa B and the glucocorticoid receptor.	Glucocorticoids, which are widely used as antiinflammatory agents, downregulate the expression of the interleukin 6 gene and of additional cytokine genes involved in inflammatory responses. Conversely, the transcription factor NF-kappa B, a member of the Rel family of transcription factors, has been implicated in the induction of multiple genes involved in the early processes of immune and inflammatory responses. This prompted us to investigate whether one of the mechanisms by which glucocorticoids exert their antiinflammatory activities is through inhibition of gene activation mediated by NF-kappa B. We report that, in intact cells, activation of the interleukin 6 promoter by a combination of the factor NF-IL6 and the p65 subunit of NF-kappa B is inhibited by dexamethasone (ligand)-activated glucocorticoid receptor. Conversely, activation of the mouse mammary tumor virus promoter by a combination of dexamethasone and glucocorticoid receptor is inhibited by overexpression of p65. Furthermore, we provide evidence for physical association between glucocorticoid receptor and p65 in protein crosslinking and coimmunoprecipitation experiments, using either in vitro translated proteins or those present in cell extracts. These studies suggest that direct interactions between NF-kappa B and glucocorticoid receptor may partly account for the antiinflammatory properties of glucocorticoids in vivo.
8302837	Bound water molecules and conformational stabilization help mediate an antigen-antibody association.	We report the three-dimensional structures, at 1.8-A resolution, of the Fv fragment of the anti-hen egg white lysozyme antibody D1.3 in its free and antigen-bound forms. These structures reveal a role for solvent molecules in stabilizing the complex and provide a molecular basis for understanding the thermodynamic forces which drive the association reaction. Four water molecules are buried and others form a hydrogen-bonded network around the interface, bridging antigen and antibody. Comparison of the structures of free and bound Fv fragment of D1.3 reveals that several of the ordered water molecules in the free antibody combining site are retained and that additional water molecules link antigen and antibody upon complex formation. This solvation of the complex should weaken the hydrophobic effect, and the resulting large number of solvent-mediated hydrogen bonds, in conjunction with direct protein-protein interactions, should generate a significant enthalpic component. Furthermore, a stabilization of the relative mobilities of the antibody heavy- and light-chain variable domains and of that of the third complementarity-determining loop of the heavy chain seen in the complex should generate a negative entropic contribution opposing the enthalpic and the hydrophobic (solvent entropy) effects. This structural analysis is consistent with measurements of enthalpy and entropy changes by titration calorimetry, which show that enthalpy drives the antigen-antibody reaction. Thus, the main forces stabilizing the complex arise from antigen-antibody hydrogen bonding, van der Waals interactions, enthalpy of hydration, and conformational stabilization rather than solvent entropy (hydrophobic) effects.
8332187	Normal and oncogenic p21ras proteins bind to the amino-terminal regulatory domain of c-Raf-1.	In higher eukaryotes, the Ras and Raf-1 proto-oncoproteins transduce growth and differentiation signals initiated by tyrosine kinases. The Ras polypeptide and the amino-terminal regulatory domain of Raf-1 (residues 1-257) are shown to interact, directly in vitro and in a yeast expression system. Raf-1 (1-257) binds GTP-Ras in preference to GDP-Ras, and inhibits Ras-GAP activity. Mutations in and around the Ras effector domain impair Ras binding to Raf-1 (1-257) and Ras transforming activity in parallel.
8332195	Direct interaction of Ras and the amino-terminal region of Raf-1 in vitro.	The Ras proteins are key regulators of the growth of eukaryotic cells, but their direct target enzymes, or 'effectors', are unknown. The protein encoded by the c-raf-1 proto-oncogene is thought to function downstream of p21ras because disruption of Raf blocks signalling by Ras in a number of systems. Here we report that the amino-terminal cysteine-rich regulatory region of p74c-raf-1 expressed as a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein binds directly to Ras with relatively high affinity (50 nM). The binding is strictly dependent on the Ras protein being in the active GTP-bound conformation rather than the inactive GDP-bound state. Raf-GST interacts with wild-type and oncogenic Ras (Val 12) but fails to interact with a biologically inert effector mutant of Ras (Ala 38) and a dominant negative mutant (Asn 17). A peptide based on the effector region of Ras inhibits the interaction. Raf-GST acts as a potent competitive inhibitor of the GTPase-activating proteins p120GAP and neurofibromin. In addition, Raf itself displays weak GTPase-stimulating activity towards Ras. It is therefore likely that Raf is a direct effector of Ras.
8349626	Adenovirus DNA polymerase is phosphorylated by a stably associated histone H1 kinase.	Adenovirus DNA polymerase (AdPol) exists as a complex with the preterminal protein (pTP) and is essential for both initiation and elongation stages of viral DNA replication. Recent evidence from our laboratory indicates that AdPol is a phosphoprotein and that the major in vivo phosphorylation site, serine 67, occurs within the consensus substrate recognition sequence for cdc2 kinases. In this study, we found that a protein kinase which also exhibits histone H1 phosphorylation activity is stably associated with AdPol. AdPol forms a multimeric complex with this histone H1 kinase and pTP in HeLa cells infected with adenovirus or coinfected with recombinant vaccinia viruses encoding AdPol and pTP. The associated protein kinase and the p34cdc2 kinase phosphorylate AdPol at the same sites which are utilized in vivo, suggesting that the p34cdc2 kinase or a related kinase may be involved in the in vivo phosphorylation of AdPol. Serine 67 is also one of the major in vitro phosphorylation sites, and the substitution of alanine for serine at this position abolishes DNA replication initiation activity of AdPol.
8361542	Inhibition of DNA replication factor RPA by p53.	The tumour suppressor p53 specifically interferes with the onset of S phase. The mechanism of the growth suppression action of the protein is unclear, though recent evidence points to transcriptional activation and repression functions of the protein. A competing hypothesis suggests that p53 interacts with the DNA replication apparatus and directly interferes with DNA replication. The major evidence for this hypothesis is that p53 interacts with the simian virus 40 (SV40)-encoded protein T antigen and interferes with the ability of T antigen to unwind the SV40 origin of DNA replication, and recruit DNA polymerase alpha to the replication initiation complex. Here we report that p53 physically interacts with and inhibits the function of a cellular DNA replication factor, the single-stranded DNA-binding protein complex RPA.
8370524	Dominant negative alleles of RAD52 reveal a DNA repair/recombination complex including Rad51 and Rad52.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae rad52 mutants are characterized by severe defects in double-strand break (DSB) repair and recombination. In this study we have identified several regions of RAD52 that are required for these biological functions. We cloned and characterized a RAD52 homolog from Kluyveromyces lactis that partially complemented S. cerevisiae rad52 mutants while exhibiting negative dominance in wild-type (RAD52) strains. The dominant negative effect was suppressed by overexpression of RAD51, an additional gene known to be required for DSB repair and recombination, indicating a genetic interaction between these loci. Furthermore, GAL4 two-hybrid analysis revealed a physical interaction between Rad51 and the carboxy-terminal one-third of Rad52. Deletion alleles of rad52 (with or without the Rad51 association domain) also produced dominant negative defects, suggesting the disruption of repair through nonfunctional interactions with other DSB repair and recombination proteins. RAD51 relieved the negative dominance of each of these alleles either by competitive titration or functional activation of mutant or heterologous Rad52 proteins. These results demonstrate the importance of Rad52-Rad51 interactions and point to the formation of a higher order repair/recombination complex potentially containing other yet unidentified components.
8381428	An interaction between replication protein A and SV40 T antigen appears essential for primosome assembly during SV40 DNA replication.	Replication protein A from human cells (hRPA) is a multisubunit single-stranded DNA-binding protein (ssb) and is essential for SV40 DNA replication in vitro. The related RPA from Saccharomyces cerevisiae (scRPA) is unable to substitute for hRPA in SV40 DNA replication. To understand this species specificity, we evaluated human and yeast RPA in enzymatic assays with SV40 T antigen (TAg) and human DNA polymerase alpha/primase, the factors essential for initiation of SV40 DNA replication. Both human and yeast RPA stimulated the polymerase and (at subsaturating levels of RPA) the primase activities of human DNA polymerase alpha/primase on homopolymer DNA templates. In contrast, both human and yeast RPA inhibited synthesis by DNA polymerase alpha/primase on natural single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) templates. T antigen reversed the inhibition of DNA polymerase alpha/primase activity on hRPA-coated natural ssDNA, as previously described, but was unable to reverse the inhibition on scRPA or Escherichia coli ssb-coated templates. Therefore, the ability of an ssb to reconstitute SV40 DNA replication correlated with its ability to allow the TAg stimulation of polymerase alpha/primase in this assay. Enzyme-linked immunoassays demonstrated that hRPA interacts with TAg, as previously described; however, scRPA does not bind to TAg in this assay. These and other recent results suggest that T antigen contains a function analogous to some prokaryotic DNA replication proteins that facilitate primosome assembly on ssb-coated template DNAs.
8384581	The retinoblastoma protein associates with the protein phosphatase type 1 catalytic subunit.	The retinoblastoma protein (p110RB) interacts with many cellular proteins in complexes potentially important for its growth-suppressing function. We have developed and used an improved version of the yeast two-hybrid system to isolate human cDNAs encoding proteins able to bind p110RB. One clone encodes a novel type 1 protein phosphatase catalytic subunit (PP-1 alpha 2), which differs from the originally defined PP-1 alpha by an amino-terminal 11-amino-acid insert. In vitro-binding assays demonstrated that PP-1 alpha isoforms preferentially bind the hypophosphorylated form of p110RB. Moreover, similar p110RB sequences are required for binding PP-1 alpha 2 and SV40 large T antigen. Cell cycle synchrony experiments revealed that this association occurs from mitosis to early G1. The implications of these findings on the regulation of both proteins are discussed.
8386265	Human papillomavirus type 16 E7 associates with a histone H1 kinase and with p107 through sequences necessary for transformation.	The transforming function of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) E7 has been shown to depend on activities additional to the ability to bind RB. In this paper we describe two further properties of E7 which may also contribute to transformation, an association with a histone H1 kinase at the G2/M phase of the cell cycle and an ability to bind the RB-related protein p107. The region of E7 identified previously as important for RB binding was found to be involved in the association with the kinase and complex formation with p107, although analysis of E7 point mutants within this region revealed a difference in the precise sequence requirement for RB and p107 binding. Association with the kinase activity correlated with the ability to bind RB, but the restriction of the kinase association to the G2/M phase of the cell cycle implies that this activity might not be directly mediated by RB binding. Since kinase-binding-deficient E7 mutants are also transformation defective, this may represent an independent function of E7 which plays a role in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle.
8388547	Analysis of a protein-binding domain of p53.	The tumor suppressor protein p53 was first isolated as a simian virus 40 large T antigen-associated protein and subsequently was found to function in cell proliferation control. Tumor-derived mutations in p53 occur predominantly in four evolutionarily conserved regions spanning approximately 50% of the polypeptide. Previously, three of these regions were identified as essential for T-antigen binding. We have examined the interaction between p53 and T antigen by using Escherichia coli-expressed human p53. By a combination of deletion analysis and antibody inhibition studies, a region of p53 that is both necessary and sufficient for binding to T antigen has been localized. This function is contained within residues 94 to 293, which include the four conserved regions affected by mutation in tumors. Residues 94 to 293 of p53 were expressed in both wild-type and mutant forms. T-antigen binding was unaffected by tumor-derived mutations which have been associated with the wild-type conformation of p53 but was greatly reduced by mutations which were previously shown to alter p53 conformation. Our results show that, like T-antigen binding to the Rb tumor suppressor protein, T antigen appears to interact with the domain of p53 that is commonly mutated in human tumors.
8389377	Casein kinase II copurifies with yeast DNA topoisomerase II and re-activates the dephosphorylated enzyme.	Mitotic division in yeast requires the activity of topoisomerase II, a DNA topology modifying enzyme that is able to disentangle sister chromatids after DNA replication. Previous work has shown that topoisomerase II is a phosphoprotein in intact yeast cells. We show here that when dephosphorylated in vitro, topoisomerase II is unable to cleave or decatenate kinetoplast DNA. An efficient kinase activity that modifies topoisomerase II on seven major sites was found to copurify with the enzyme purified from yeast. Characterization of this kinase, analysis of phosphotryptic peptides, and studies with a yeast mutant deficient in casein kinase II, indicate that the copurifying kinase is casein kinase II (CKII). Topoisomerase II itself has no self-phosphorylating activity. Modification of topoisomerase II by the copurifying kinase is sufficient to restore decatenation activity after dephosphorylation by alkaline phosphatase. The CKII target sites have been mapped to multiple serine and threonine residues on 4 tryptic fragments within the C-terminal 350 amino acids of yeast topoisomerase II. These results are consistent with a model in which the C-terminal domain of topoisomerase II is a negative regulatory domain that is neutralized by phosphorylation.
8413665	The structure of crystalline profilin-beta-actin.	The three-dimensional structure of bovine profilin-beta-actin has been solved to 2.55 A resolution by X-ray crystallography. There are several significant local changes in the structure of beta-actin compared with alpha-actin as well as an overall 5 degrees rotation between its two major domains. Actin molecules in the crystal are organized into ribbons through intermolecular contacts like those found in oligomeric protein assemblies. Profilin forms two extensive contacts with the actin ribbon, one of which appears to correspond to the solution contact in vitro.
8413674	Molecular basis of crossreactivity and the limits of antibody-antigen complementarity.	Two major unanswered questions concerning the specificity of antibodies are: how do structurally different antigens bind with high affinity to the same antibody, and what are the limits of the antibody combining site complementarity and flexibility that contribute to such crossreactivity? We report here a comparative analysis of the X-ray structures of five conformationally different steroids in complex with the Fab' fragment of an anti-progesterone antibody DB3 at 2.7 A. This antibody is unable to complement completely the shape of the hydrophobic antigen so that crossreactivity occurs with other ligands without major structural rearrangements of the binding site. Antigen specificity can be explained through conserved interactions of DB3 with the steroid D-ring, whereas some of the crossreactivity is realized through different binding orientations of the steroid skeleton that place the A-ring into alternative pockets on the antibody surface. The restricted gene usage of the VGAM3.8 family in the generation of anti-progesterone monoclonal antibodies may be explained by the specific interaction of VH hallmark residues with the steroid D-ring. This first detailed structure of steroid interactions with a protein could be applied to the understanding of general mechanisms of steroid recognition as well as in the design of specific binding sites for small hydrophobic ligands.
8422672	A short, disordered protein region mediates interactions between the homeodomain of the yeast alpha 2 protein and the MCM1 protein.	Homeodomains are folded into a characteristic three-dimensional structure capable of recognizing DNA in a sequence-specific manner. We show that correct target site selection by the yeast alpha 2 protein requires, as well as its homeodomain, an adjacent short and apparently unstructured region of the protein. This flexible homeodomain extension is responsible for specifying an interaction with a second regulatory protein, MCM1, which permits the cooperative binding of the two proteins to an operator. Two additional experiments suggest that this extension-homeodomain arrangement is likely to have some generality. First, when the extension of alpha 2 is grafted onto the Drosophila engrailed homeodomain, it yields a protein with the DNA binding specificity of engrailed and the ability to bind cooperatively to DNA with MCM1. Second, the alpha 2 extension specifies interaction not only with the yeast MCM1 protein, but also with the related human protein SRF.
8423815	Transcriptional activation by simian virus 40 large T antigen: interactions with multiple components of the transcription complex.	Simian virus 40 (SV40) large T antigen is a potent transcriptional activator of both viral and cellular promoters. Within the SV40 late promoter, a specific upstream element necessary for T-antigen transcriptional activation is the binding site for transcription-enhancing factor 1 (TEF-1). The promoter structure necessary for T-antigen-mediated transcriptional activation appears to be simple. For example, a promoter consisting of upstream TEF-1 binding sites (or other factor-binding sites) and a downstream TATA or initiator element is efficiently activated. It has been demonstrated that transcriptional activation by T antigen does not require direct binding to the DNA; thus, the most direct effect that T antigen could have on these simple promoters would be through protein-protein interactions with either upstream-bound transcription factors, the basal transcription complex, or both. To determine whether such interactions occur, full-length T antigen or segments of it was fused to the glutathione-binding site (GST fusions) or to the Gal4 DNA-binding domain (amino acids 1 to 147) (Gal4 fusions). With the GST fusions, it was found that TEF-1 and the TATA-binding protein (TBP) bound different regions of T antigen. A GST fusion containing amino acids 5 to 172 (region T1) efficiently bound TBP. TEF-1 bound neither region T1 nor a region between amino acids 168 and 373 (region T2); however, it bound efficiently to the combined region (T5) containing amino acids 5 to 383.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8438166	Identification of a ten-amino acid proline-rich SH3 binding site.	The Src homology 3 (SH3) region is a small protein domain present in a very large group of proteins, including cytoskeletal elements and signaling proteins. It is believed that SH3 domains serve as modules that mediate protein-protein associations and, along with Src homology 2 (SH2) domains, regulate cytoplasmic signaling. The SH3 binding sites of two SH3 binding proteins were localized to a nine- or ten-amino acid stretch very rich in proline residues. Similar SH3 binding motifs exist in the formins, proteins that function in pattern formation in embryonic limbs of the mouse, and one subtype of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor. Identification of the SH3 binding site provides a basis for understanding the interaction between the SH3 domains and their targets.
8445634	Refined 1.6 A resolution crystal structure of the complex formed between porcine beta-trypsin and MCTI-A, a trypsin inhibitor of the squash family. Detailed comparison with bovine beta-trypsin and its complex.	The crystal structure of the complex formed by porcine beta-trypsin with the MCTI-A inhibitor (Momordica charantia, Linn. Cucurbitaceae) has been determined at 1.6 A resolution using the molecular replacement method. The sequence of MCTI-A was determined by recognizing the electron density, and shows that MCTI-A is a member of the squash family of trypsin inhibitors. We report the first high-resolution structure of porcine beta-trypsin. Detailed comparisons have been made on the overall structure, solvent structure and active-site geometries between this complex and bovine beta-trypsin and its complexes. On the basis of our results, we discuss the interaction patterns between inhibitor and trypsin. Unlike other complex structures formed by bovine trypsin with inhibitors, no out-of-plane distortion around the inhibitor's scissible peptide was observed. The role of the trypsin catalytic triad is also discussed on the basis of this structure.
8478942	Relocating a negative charge in the binding pocket of trypsin.	The functional and structural consequences of altering the position of the negatively charged aspartate residue at the base of the specificity pocket of trypsin have been examined by site-directed mutagenesis, kinetic characterization and crystallographic analysis. Anionic rat trypsin D189G/G226D exhibits a high level of catalytic activity on activated amide substrates, but its relative preference for lysine versus arginine as the P1 site residue is shifted by 30 to 40-fold in favor of lysine. The crystal structure of this variant has been determined in complexes with BPTI (bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor), APPI (amyloid beta-protein precursor inhibitor domain) and benzamidine inhibitors, at resolutions of 2.1 A, 2.5 A and 2.2 A, respectively. Asp226 bridges the base of the specificity pocket with its negative charge partially buried by interactions made with Ser190 and Tyr228. An equal reduction in the affinity of the variant enzyme for Arg and Lys substrates is attributable to a decreased electrostatic interaction of each ligand with the relocated aspartate residue. Comparison of structural and functional parameters with those of wild-type trypsin suggests that direct hydrogen-bonding electrostatic contacts in the S1 site do not significantly improve the free energy of substrate binding relative to indirect water-mediated interactions. The conformation adopted by Asp226, as well as by other adjacent side-chain and backbone groups, depends upon the ligand bound in the primary specificity pocket. This structural flexibility may be of critical importance to the retention of catalytic activity by the variant enzyme.
8479541	Guanine-nucleotide-releasing factor hSos1 binds to Grb2 and links receptor tyrosine kinases to Ras signalling.	Many of the actions of receptor tyrosine kinases are mediated by the protein Ras, including the activation of various downstream serine/threonine kinases and the stimulation of growth and differentiation. The human protein Grb2 binds to ligand-activated growth factor receptors and downstream effector proteins through its Src-homology (SH) domains SH2 and SH3, respectively, and like its homologue from Caenorhabditis elegans, Sem-5, apparently forms part of a highly conserved pathway by which these receptors can control Ras activity. Here we show that the SH3 domains of Grb2 bind to the carboxy-terminal part of hSos1, the human homologue of the Drosophila guanine-nucleotide-releasing factor for Ras, which is essential for control of Ras activity by epidermal growth factor receptor and sevenless. Moreover, a synthetic 10-amino-acid peptide containing the sequence PPVPPR specifically blocks the interaction. These results indicate that the Grb2/hSos1 complex couples activated EGF receptor to Ras signalling.
8483943	Three-dimensional structure of a human immunoglobulin with a hinge deletion.	X-ray analysis at 3.2-A resolution revealed that the Mcg IgG1 (lambda chain) immunoglobulin is a compact T-shaped molecule. Because of the hinge deletion, the Fc fragment lobe is pulled tightly upward into the junction of the Fab arms. Along the molecular twofold axis, the Fab arms are joined by an interchain disulfide bond between the two light chains. The antigen combining sites consist of large irregular cavities at the tips of the Fab regions. Potential complement (C1q) binding sites on Fc are sterically shielded by the Fab arms, but putative attachment sites are accessible for docking with the FcRI receptor on human monocytes and with protein A of Staphylococcus aureus.
8516295	Interactions between three common subunits of yeast RNA polymerases I and III.	The AC40 and AC19 subunits (encoded by RPC40 and RPC19) are shared by yeast RNA polymerases I and III and have a local sequence similarity to prokaryotic alpha subunits. Mutational analysis of the corresponding "alpha motif" indicated that its integrity is essential on AC40 subunit but is not essential on AC19 subunit. By applying the two-hybrid method, these two polypeptides were shown to associate in vivo. Extragenic suppression of rpc19 and rpc40 mutations confirmed that AC19 and AC40 subunits interact with each other in vivo and revealed an interaction with ABC10 beta subunit [encoded by RPB10; Woychick, N. A. & Young, R.A. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 17816-17819], one of the five polypeptides common to all three nuclear RNA polymerases. A correction of the RPB10 sequence showed that ABC10 beta subunit is a 70-amino acid polypeptide, as confirmed by peptide microsequencing. These results suggest that the assembly of RNA polymerase I and III requires the association of ABC10 beta subunit with an AC19/AC40 heterodimer.
8521480	Acetylcholinesterase inhibition by fasciculin: crystal structure of the complex.	The crystal structure of the snake toxin fasciculin, bound to mouse acetylcholinesterase (mAChE), at 3.2 A resolution reveals a synergistic three-point anchorage consistent with the picomolar dissociation constant of the complex. Loop II of fasciculin contains a cluster of hydrophobic residues that interact with the peripheral anionic site of the enzyme and sterically occlude substrate access to the catalytic site. Loop I fits in a crevice near the lip of the gorge to maximize the surface area of contact of loop II at the gorge entry. The fasciculin core surrounds a protruding loop on the enzyme surface and stabilizes the whole assembly. Upon binding of fasciculin, subtle structural rearrangements of AChE occur that could explain the observed residual catalytic activity of the fasciculin-enzyme complex.
8524272	Differential regulation of the alpha/beta interferon-stimulated Jak/Stat pathway by the SH2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase SHPTP1.	Interferons (IFNs) induce early-response genes by stimulating Janus family (Jak) tyrosine kinases, leading to tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat transcription factors. Previous studies implicated protein-tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) activity in the control of IFN-regulated Jak/Stat signaling, but the specific PTPs responsible remained unidentified. We have found that SH2 domain-containing PTP1 (SHPTP1; also called PTP1C, HCP, or SHP) reversibly associates with the IFN-alpha receptor complex upon IFN addition. Compared with macrophages from normal littermate controls, macrophages from motheaten mice, which lack SHPTP1, show dramatically increased Jak1 and Stat1 alpha tyrosine phosphorylation, whereas Tyk2 and Stat2 activation is largely unaffected. These findings correlate with selectively increased complex formation on a gamma response element, but not an IFN-stimulated response element, in motheaten macrophages. Our results establish that SHPTP1 selectively regulates distinct components of Jak/Stat signal transduction pathways in vivo.
8524286	Lambda-interacting protein, a novel protein that specifically interacts with the zinc finger domain of the atypical protein kinase C isotype lambda/iota and stimulates its kinase activity in vitro and in vivo.	The members of the atypical subfamily of protein kinase C (PKC) show dramatic structural and functional differences from other PKC isotypes. Thus, in contrast to the classical or novel PKCs, they are not activated by diacylglycerol or phorbol esters. However, the atypical PKCs are the target of important lipid second messengers such as ceramide, phosphatidic acid, and 3'-phosphoinositides. The catalytic and pseudosubstrate sequences in the two atypical PKCs (lambda/iota PKC and zeta PKC) are identical but are significantly different from those of conventional or novel PKCs. It has been shown that microinjection of a peptide with the sequence of the pseudosubstrate of the atypical PKC isotypes but not of alpha PKC or epsilon PKC dramatically inhibited maturation and NF-kappa B activation in Xenopus oocytes, as well as reinitiation of DNA synthesis in quiescent mouse fibroblasts. This indicates that either or both atypical isoforms are important in cell signalling. Besides the pseudosubstrate, the major differences in the sequence between lambda/iota PKC and zeta PKC are located in the regulatory domain. Therefore, any functional divergence between the two types of atypical PKCs will presumably reside in that region. We report here the molecular characterization of lambda-interacting protein (LIP), a novel protein that specifically interacts with the zinc finger of lambda/iota PKC but not zeta PKC. We show in this paper that this interaction is detected not only in vitro but also in vivo, that LIP activates lambda/iota PKC but not zeta PKC in vitro and in vivo, and that this interaction is functionally relevant. Thus, expression of LIP leads to the transactivation of a kappa B-dependent promoter in a manner that is dependent on lambda/iota PKC. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the cloning and characterization of a protein activator of a PKC that binds to the zinc finger domain, which has so far been considered a site for binding of lipid modulators. The fact that LIP binds to lambda/iota PKC but not to the highly related zeta PKC isoform suggests that the specificity of the activation of the members of the different PKC subfamilies will most probably be accounted for by proteins like LIP rather than by lipid activators.
8524293	Interactions between the ankyrin repeat-containing protein Akr1p and the pheromone response pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Akr1p, which contains six ankyrin repeats, was identified during a screen for mutations that displayed synthetic lethality with a mutant allele of the bud emergence gene BEM1. Cells from which AKR1 had been deleted were alive but misshapen at 30 degrees C and inviable at 37 degrees C. During a screen for mutants that required one or more copies of wild-type AKR1 for survival at 30 degrees C, we isolated mutations in GPA1, which encodes the G alpha subunit of the pheromone receptor-coupled G protein. (The active subunit of this G protein is G beta gamma, and G alpha plays an inhibitory role in G beta gamma-mediated signal transduction.) AKR1 could serve as a multicopy suppressor of the lethality caused by either loss of GPA1 or overexpression of STE4, which encodes the G beta subunit of this G protein, suggesting that pheromone signaling is inhibited by overexpression of Akr1p. Mutations in AKR1 displayed synthetic lethality with a weak allele of GPA1 and led to increased expression of the pheromone-inducible gene FUS1, suggesting that Akr1p normally (and not just when overexpressed) inhibits signaling. In contrast, deletion of BEM1 resulted in decreased expression of FUS1, suggesting that Bem1p normally facilitates pheromone signaling. During a screen for proteins that displayed two-hybrid interactions with Akr1p, we identified Ste4p, raising the possibility that an interaction between Akr1p and Ste4p contributes to proper regulation of the pheromone response pathway.
8524402	Crystal structures of human calcineurin and the human FKBP12-FK506-calcineurin complex.	Calcineurin (CaN) is a calcium- and calmodulin-dependent protein serine/threonine phosphate which is critical for several important cellular processes, including T-cell activation. CaN is the target of the immunosuppressive drugs cyclosporin A and FK506, which inhibit CaN after forming complexes with cytoplasmic binding proteins (cyclophilin and FKBP12, respectively). We report here the crystal structures of full-length human CaN at 2.1 A resolution and of the complex of human CaN with FKBP12-FK506 at 3.5 A resolution. In the native CaN structure, an auto-inhibitory element binds at the Zn/Fe-containing active site. The metal-site geometry and active-site water structure suggest a catalytic mechanism involving nucleophilic attack on the substrate phosphate by a metal-activated water molecule. In the FKBP12-FK506-CaN complex, the auto-inhibitory element is displaced from the active site. The site of binding of FKBP12-FK506 appears to be shared by other non-competitive inhibitors of calcineurin, including a natural anchoring protein.
8524870	A Fas-associated protein factor, FAF1, potentiates Fas-mediated apoptosis.	Fas, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family, can induce apoptosis when activated by Fas ligand binding or anti-Fas antibody crosslinking. Genetic studies have shown that a defect in Fas-mediated apoptosis resulted in abnormal development and function of the immune system in mice. A point mutation in the cytoplasmic domain of Fas (a single base change from T to A at base 786), replacing isoleucine with asparagine, abolishes the signal transducing property of Fas. Mice homozygous for this mutant allele (lprcg/lprcg mice) develop lymphadenopathy and a lupus-like autoimmune disease. Little is known about the mechanism of signal transduction in Fas-mediated apoptosis. In this study, we used the two-hybrid screen in yeast to isolate a Fas-associated protein factor, FAF1, which specifically interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of wild-type Fas but not the lprcg-mutated Fas protein. This interaction occurs not only in yeast but also in mammalian cells. When transiently expressed in L cells, FAF1 potentiated Fas-induced apoptosis. A search of available DNA and protein sequence data banks did not reveal significant homology between FAF1 and known proteins. Therefore, FAF1 is an unusual protein that binds to the wild type but not the inactive point mutant of Fas. FAF1 potentiates Fas-induced cell killing and is a candidate signal transducing molecule in the regulation of apoptosis.
8528255	A protein linkage map of Escherichia coli bacteriophage T7.	Genome sequencing projects are predicting large numbers of novel proteins, whose interactions with other proteins must mediate the function of cellular processes. To analyse these networks, we used the yeast two-hybrid system on a genome-wide scale to identify 25 interactions among the proteins of Escherichia coli bacteriophage T7. Among these is a set of six interactions connecting proteins that function in DNA replication and DNA packaging. Remarkably, two genes, arranged such that one entirely overlaps the other and uses a different reading frame, encode interacting proteins. Several of the interactions reflect intramolecular associations of different domains of the same polypeptide, suggesting that the two-hybrid assay may be useful in the analysis of protein folding. This global approach to protein-protein interactions may be applicable to the analysis of more complex genomes whose sequences are becoming available.
8530366	Selective interactions of UPIa and UPIb, two members of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, with distinct single transmembrane-domained proteins in differentiated urothelial cells.	The transmembrane 4 (TM4) superfamily contains many important leukocyte differentiation-related surface proteins including CD9, CD37, CD53, and CD81; tumor-associated antigens including CD63/ME491, CO-029, and SAS; and a newly identified metastasis suppressor gene R2. Relatively little is known, however, about the structure and aggregation state of these four transmembrane-domained proteins. The asymmetrical unit membrane (AUM), believed to play a major role in stabilizing the apical surface of mammalian urothelium thus preventing it from rupturing during bladder distention, contains two TM4 members, the uroplakins (UPs) Ia and Ib. In association with two other (single transmembrane-domained) membrane proteins, UPII and UPIII, UPIa and UPIb form 16-nm particles that naturally form two-dimensional crystalline arrays, thus providing unique opportunities for studying membrane structure and function. To better understand how these proteins interact to form the 16-nm particles, we analyzed their nearest neighbor relationship by chemical cross-linking. We show here that UPIa and UPIb, which share 39% of their amino acid sequence, are cross-linked to UPII and UPIII, respectively. We also show that UPIa has a propensity to oligomerize, forming complexes that are stable in SDS, and that UPII can be readily cross-linked to form homodimers. The formation of UPII homodimers is sensitive, however, to octyl glucoside that can solubilize the AUMs. These data suggest that there exist two types of 16-nm AUM particles that contain UPIa/UPII or UPIb/UPIII, and support a model in which the UPIa and UPII occupy the inner and outer domains, respectively, of the UPIa/UPII particle. This model can account for the apparent "redundancy" of the uroplakins, as the structurally related UPIa and UPIb, by interacting with different partners, may play different roles in AUM formation. The model also suggests that AUM plaques with different uroplakin compositions may differ in their assembly, and in their abilities to interact with an underlying cytoskeleton. Our data indicate that two closely related TM4 proteins, UPIa and UPIb, can be present in the same cell, interacting with distinct partners. AUM thus provides an excellent model system for studying the targeting, processing, and assembly of TM4 proteins.
8530446	Cysteine-rich region of Raf-1 interacts with activator domain of post-translationally modified Ha-Ras.	The interaction between "switch I/effector domain" of Ha-Ras and the Ras-binding domain (RBD, amino acid 51-131) of Raf-1 is essential for signal transduction. However, the importance of the "activator domain" (approximately corresponding to amino acids 26-28 and 40-49) of Ha-Ras and of the "cysteine-rich region" (CRR, amino acids 152-184) of Raf-1 have also been proposed. Here, we found that Raf-1 CRR interacts directly with Ha-Ras independently of RBD and that participation of CRR is necessary for efficient Ras-Raf binding. Furthermore, Ha-Ras carrying mutations (N26G and V45E) in the activator domain failed to bind CRR, whereas they bound RBD normally. On the contrary, Ha-Ras carrying mutations in the switch I/effector domain exhibited severely reduced ability to bind RBD, whereas their ability to bind CRR was unaffected. Mutants that bound to either RBD or CRR alone failed to activate Raf-1. Ha-Ras without post-translational modifications, which lacks the ability to activate Raf-1, selectively lost the ability to bind CRR. These results suggest that the activator domain of Ha-Ras participates in activation of Raf-1 through interaction with CRR and that post-translational modifications of Ha-Ras are required for this interaction.
8535235	Water molecules participate in proteinase-inhibitor interactions: crystal structures of Leu18, Ala18, and Gly18 variants of turkey ovomucoid inhibitor third domain complexed with Streptomyces griseus proteinase B.	Crystal structures of the complexes of Streptomyces griseus proteinase B (SGPB) with three P1 variants of turkey ovomucoid inhibitor third domain (OMTKY3), Leu18, Ala18, and Gly18, have been determined and refined to high resolution. Comparisons among these structures and of each with native, uncomplexed SGPB reveal that each complex features a unique solvent structure in the S1 binding pocket. The number and relative positions of water molecules bound in the S1 binding pocket vary according to the size of the side chain of the P1 residue. Water molecules in the S1 binding pocket of SGPB are redistributed in response to the complex formation, probably to optimize hydrogen bonds between the enzyme and the inhibitor. There are extensive water-mediated hydrogen bonds in the interfaces of the complexes. In all complexes, Asn 36 of OMTKY3 participates in forming hydrogen bonds, via water molecules, with residues lining the S1 binding pocket of SGPB. For a homologous series of aliphatic straight side chains, Gly18, Ala18, Abu18, Ape18, and Ahp18 variants, the binding free energy is a linear function of the hydrophobic surface area buried in the interface of the corresponding complexes. The resulting constant of proportionality is 34.1 cal mol-1 A-2. These structures confirm that the binding of OMTKY3 to the preformed S1 pocket in SGPB involves no substantial structural disturbances that commonly occur in the site-directed mutagenesis studies of interior residues in other proteins, thus providing one of the most reliable assessments of the contribution of the hydrophobic effect to protein-complex stability.
8537405	Interaction of calreticulin with protein disulfide isomerase.	We report here that calreticulin interacts with protein disulfide isomerase (PDI). The PDI-calreticulin complex can be dissociated by Zn(2+)-iminodiacetate-substituted Sepharose-agarose chromatography, suggesting that these interactions may be Zn2+-dependent. Direct interaction between calreticulin and PDI is also documented by calreticulin affinity chromatography. PDI was the only pancreatic microsomal protein retained on the calreticulum affinity column. Calreticulin and PDI were identified by their NH2-terminal amino acid sequence analysis, mobilities in SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, binding of 45Ca2+, and their reactivity with specific antibodies. Using glutathione S-transferase-calreticulin fusion proteins, we show that PDI interacts strongly with the P-domain and only weakly with the N-domain of calreticulin. Expression of calreticulin domains and PDI as fusion proteins with GAL4 in the yeast two-hybrid system revealed that calreticulin interacted with PDI also under normal cellular conditions. Interaction with PDI required only the NH2-terminal region of the N-domain (amino acid residues 1-83) and the P-domain (amino acid residues 150-240) of calreticulin. Importantly, interaction between calreticulin and PDI led to the modulation of their activities. In the presence of PDI, calreticulin does not bind Ca2+ with high affinity. Calreticulin or the N-domain of calreticulin inhibited PDI ability to refold scrambled RNase A.
8549741	Protein phosphatase 1 interacts with p53BP2, a protein which binds to the tumour suppressor p53.	The p53 binding protein, termed p53BP2, was identified as a protein interacting with protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) in the yeast two hybrid system. The interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation of p53BP2 with epitope-tagged PP1 in vitro. The p53BP2-PP1 complex was stable to NaCl at concentrations which dissociate the p53-p53BP2 complex, and the binding of PP1 and p53 to p53BP2 was mutually exclusive. The region required for interaction with PP1 was shown to be contained within amino acids 297-431 of p53BP2, which includes two ankyrin repeats. The phosphorylase phosphatase activity of PP1 was inhibited by p53BP2 at nanomolar concentrations. These results suggest that PP1 may be involved in dephosphorylation and regulation of p53 through interaction with p53BP2.
8551220	The SH3 domain of p56lck binds to proline-rich sequences in the cytoplasmic domain of CD2.	CD2, a cell surface glycoprotein expressed on T cells and natural killer cells, can couple to signaling pathways that result in T cell proliferation. An Src-like protein tyrosine kinase, p56lck, coprecipitates with CD2, and perturbation of CD2 by monoclonal antibodies results in an increase in the activity of p56lck, suggesting that an interaction with p56lck contributes to CD2-mediated signaling. Herein, we investigate the mechanism by which CD2 associates with p56lck. We demonstrate that CD2 and p56lck associate when coexpressed in nonlymphoid cells, that this association requires the cytoplasmic domain of CD2, and that the SH3 domain of p56lck mediates its interactions with CD2. Using truncation mutants of CD2, we identify two regions in the cytoplasmic domain of CD2 involved in binding p56lck. Each region contains a proline-rich sequence that, in the form of a synthetic peptide, directly binds p56lck. Thus, proline-rich sequences in the cytoplasmic domain of CD2 allow this transmembrane receptor to bind to the SH3 domain of p56lck.
8551580	The major transcriptional transactivation domain of simian virus 40 large T antigen associates nonconcurrently with multiple components of the transcriptional preinitiation complex.	Simian virus 40 (SV40) large T antigen (Tag) is a promiscuous transcriptional transactivator; however, its mechanism of transactivation remains unknown. Recent studies have suggested the possible involvement of protein-protein interactions with TBP, the TATA box-binding protein of TFIID, and TEF-1, an enhancer-binding factor. We show here that (i) the Tag domain containing amino acids 133 to 249 directly interacts with the general transcription factor TFIIB, the activator protein Sp1, and the 140-kDa subunit of RNA polymerase II, as well as with TBP and TEF-1; (ii) these interactions can also occur when these transcription factors are present in their functional states in cellular extracts; (iii) binding of Tag to TBP is eliminated by preincubation of TBP either at 48 degrees C or with the adenovirus 13S E1a protein; (iv) this domain of Tag cannot bind concurrently to more than one of these transcription factors; and (v) the substitution of Tag amino acid residues 173 and 174 inactivates the ability of this Tag domain both to associate with any of these transcription factors and to transactivate the SV40 late promoter. Thus, we conclude that SV40 Tag probably does not transactivate via the concurrent interaction with multiple components of the preinitiation complex. Rather, we hypothesize that transactivation by Tag may primarily occur by removing or preventing the binding of factors that inhibit the formation of preinitiation complexes.
8551581	Interaction between T antigen and TEA domain of the factor TEF-1 derepresses simian virus 40 late promoter in vitro: identification of T-antigen domains important for transcription control.	The large tumor antigen (TAg) of simian virus 40 regulates transcription of the viral genes. The early promoter is repressed when TAg binds to the origin and DNA replication begins, whereas the late promoter is activated by TAg through both replication-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Previously it was shown that activation is diminished when a site in the viral enhancer to which the factor TEF-1 binds is disrupted. We show here that the NH2-terminal region of TAg binds to the TEA domain of TEF-1, a DNA binding domain also found in the Drosophila scalloped and the Saccharomyces cerevisiae TEC1 proteins. The interaction inhibits DNA binding by TEF-1 and activates transcription in vitro from a subset of naturally occurring late start sites. These sites are also activated by mutations in the DNA motifs to which TEF-1 binds. Therefore, TEF-1 appears to function as a repressor of late transcription, and its involvement in the early-to-late shift in viral transcription is discussed. The mutation of Ser-189 in TAg, which reduces transformation efficiency in certain assays, disrupts the interaction with TEF-1. Thus, TEF-1 might also regulate genes involved in growth control.
8552082	A conserved proline-rich region of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae cyclase-associated protein binds SH3 domains and modulates cytoskeletal localization.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae cyclase-associated protein (CAP or Srv2p) is multifunctional. The N-terminal third of CAP binds to adenylyl cyclase and has been implicated in adenylyl cyclase activation in vivo. The widely conserved C-terminal domain of CAP binds to monomeric actin and serves an important cytoskeletal regulatory function in vivo. In addition, all CAP homologs contain a centrally located proline-rich region which has no previously identified function. Recently, SH3 (Src homology 3) domains were shown to bind to proline-rich regions of proteins. Here we report that the proline-rich region of CAP is recognized by the SH3 domains of several proteins, including the yeast actin-associated protein Abp1p. Immunolocalization experiments demonstrate that CAP colocalizes with cortical actin-containing structures in vivo and that a region of CAP containing the SH3 domain binding site is required for this localization. We also demonstrate that the SH3 domain of yeast Abp1p and that of the yeast RAS protein guanine nucleotide exchange factor Cdc25p complex with adenylyl cyclase in vitro. Interestingly, the binding of the Cdc25p SH3 domain is not mediated by CAP and therefore may involve direct binding to adenylyl cyclase or to an unidentified protein which complexes with adenylyl cyclase. We also found that CAP homologous from Schizosaccharomyces pombe and humans bind SH3 domains. The human protein binds most strongly to the SH3 domain from the abl proto-oncogene. These observations identify CAP as an SH3 domain-binding protein and suggest that CAP mediates interactions between SH3 domain proteins and monomeric actin.
8552662	Retinoblastoma protein directly interacts with and activates the transcription factor NF-IL6.	The biological function of the retinoblastoma protein (RB) in the cell division cycle has been extensively documented, but its apparent role in differentiation remains largely unexplored. To investigate how RB is involved in differentiation, the U937 large-cell lymphoma line was induced to differentiate along a monocyte/macrophage lineage. During differentiation RB was found to interact directly through its simian virus 40 large tumor antigen (T antigen)-binding domain with NF-IL6, a member of the CAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors. NF-IL6 utilizes two distinct regions to bind to the hypophosphorylated form of RB in vitro and in cells. Wild-type but not mutant RB enhanced both binding activity of NF-IL6 to its cognate DNA sequences in vitro and promoter transactivation by NF-IL6 in cells. These findings indicate a novel biochemical function of RB: it activates, by an apparent chaperone-like activity, specific transcription factors important for differentiation. This contrasts with its sequestration and inactivation of other transcription factors, such as E2F-1, which promote progression of the cell cycle. Such disparate mechanisms may help to explain the dual role of RB in cell differentiation and the cell division cycle.
8553588	Human papillomavirus E7 oncoproteins bind a single form of cyclin E in a complex with cdk2 and p107.	The E6 and E7 proteins of the high-risk human papillomaviruses (HPVs) act coordinately to immortalize human keratinocytes. These viral oncoproteins function by binding and altering the activity of cellular proteins which regulate cell cycle progression. Among the proteins bound by E7 are the retinoblastoma protein, Rb, as well as the related p107 and p130 proteins. In addition, E7 binds cyclin A, which regulates transit through the S and G2/M phases of the cell cycle. In this study, we demonstrate that HPV 18 E7 also associates with cyclin E which controls the G1/S transition. E7/cyclin E complexes were immunoprecipitated from E7-expressing cells as well as from cell extracts using GST-E7 fusion proteins. E7 was found to complex with a single form of cyclin E, and the binding was mediated through p107. Both E7/cyclin E and E7/cyclin A complexes exhibit kinase activity through associated cdk2 proteins which can contribute to phosphorylation of p107. The association of E7 with proteins which regulate transit through the cell cycle may provide an additional mechanism by which infection with human papillomaviruses results in cellular hyperproliferation.
8557685	Rad, a novel Ras-related GTPase, interacts with skeletal muscle beta-tropomyosin.	Rad, a prototypic member of a subfamily of Ras-related GTPases, is overexpressed in skeletal muscle of type II diabetic humans. By expression screening of mouse embryo and human skeletal muscle cDNA libraries, we found that Rad interacted with skeletal muscle beta-tropomyosin. In the mouse skeletal muscle cell line C2C12, this interaction was significantly increased by the calcium ionophore A23187. A23187 also caused a time- and concentration-dependent decrease in total cellular Rad with increased interaction between tropomyosin and Rad in the detergent-soluble fraction and the appearance of Rad in the cytoskeleton. In C2C12 cells stably overexpressing a putative dominant negative mutant of Rad (S105N), there was an increase in the amount of tropomyosin in Rad immunoprecipitates. In cells overexpressing wild type Rad, much of Rad was associated with the cytoskeleton and was no longer responsive to A23187. In far-Western blotting and guanine nucleotide saturation studies, GDP-Rad bound to tropomyosin far better than GTP-Rad. We conclude that Rad interacts with skeletal muscle beta-tropomyosin and the cytoskeleton in a guanine nucleotide-dependent manner. These data suggest that Rad may be involved in skeletal muscle motor function and cytoskeletal organization.
8565075	TRADD-TRAF2 and TRADD-FADD interactions define two distinct TNF receptor 1 signal transduction pathways.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) can induce apoptosis and activate NF-kappa B through signaling cascades emanating from TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1). TRADD is a TNFR1-associated signal transducer that is involved in activating both pathways. Here we show that TRADD directly interacts with TRAF2 and FADD, signal transducers that activate NF-kappa B and induce apoptosis, respectively. A TRAF2 mutant lacking its N-terminal RING finger domain is a dominant-negative inhibitor of TNF-mediated NF-kappa B activation, but does not affect TNF-induced apoptosis. Conversely, a FADD mutant lacking its N-terminal 79 amino acids is a dominant-negative inhibitor of TNF-induced apoptosis, but does not inhibit NF-kappa B activation. Thus, these two TNFR1-TRADD signaling cascades appear to bifurcate at TRADD.
8568892	The crystal structure of a high oxygen affinity species of haemoglobin (bar-headed goose haemoglobin in the oxy form).	We have determined the crystal structure of bar-headed goose haemoglobin in the oxy form to a resolution of 2.0 A. The R-factor of the model is 19.8%. The structure is similar to human HbA, but contacts between the subunits show slightly altered packing of the tetramer. Bar-headed goose blood shows a greatly elevated oxygen affinity compared to closely related species of geese. This is apparently due to a single proline to alanine mutation at the alpha 1 beta 1 interface which destabilises the T state of the protein. The beta chain N and C termini are well-localized, and together with other neighbouring basic groups they form a strongly positively charged groove at the entrance to the central cavity around the molecular dyad. The well-ordered conformation and the three-dimensional distribution of positive charges clearly indicate this area to be the inositol pentaphosphate binding site of bird haemoglobins.
8570649	Surface hydrophobic residues of multiubiquitin chains essential for proteolytic targeting.	Ubiquitin conjugation is a signal for degradation of eukaryotic proteins by the 26S protease. Conjugation of a homopolymeric multiubiquitin chain to a substrate lysine residue results in 10-fold faster degradation than does conjugation of monoubiquitin, but the molecular basis of enhanced targeting by chains is unknown. We show that ubiquitin residues L8, I44, and V70 are critical for targeting. Mutation of pairs of these residues to alanine had little effect on attachment of ubiquitin to substrates but severely inhibited degradation of the resulting conjugates. The same mutations blocked the binding of chains to a specific subunit (S5a) of the regulatory complex of the 26S protease. The side chains implicated in this binding--L8, I44, and V70--form repeating patches on the chain surface. Thus, hydrophobic interactions between these patches and S5a apparently contribute to enhanced proteolytic targeting by multiubiquitin chains.
8571127	Identification of a putative target for Rho as the serine-threonine kinase protein kinase N.	Rho, a Ras-like small guanosine triphosphatase, has been implicated in cytoskeletal responses to extracellular signals such as lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) to form stress fibers and focal contacts. The form of RhoA bound to guanosine triphosphate directly bound to and activated a serine-threonine kinase, protein kinase N (PKN). Activated RhoA formed a complex with PKN and activated it in COS-7 cells. PKN was phosphorylated in Swiss 3T3 cells stimulated with LPA, and this phosphorylation was blocked by treatment of cells with botulinum C3 exoenzyme. Activation of Rho may be linked directly to a serine-threonine kinase pathway.
8590005	Structure of beta 2-bungarotoxin: potassium channel binding by Kunitz modules and targeted phospholipase action.	BACKGROUND: beta-bungarotoxin is a heterodimeric neurotoxin consisting of a phospholipase subunit linked by a disulfide bond to a K+ channel binding subunit which is a member of the Kunitz protease inhibitor superfamily. Toxicity, characterized by blockage of neural transmission, is achieved by the lipolytic action of the phospholipase targeted to the presynaptic membrane by the Kunitz module. RESULTS: The crystal structure at 2.45 A resolution suggests that the ion channel binding region of the Kunitz subunit is at the opposite end of the module from the loop typically involved in protease binding. Analysis of the phospholipase subunit reveals a partially occluded substrate-binding surface and reduced hydrophobicity. CONCLUSIONS: Molecular recognition by this Kunitz module appears to diverge considerably from more conventional superfamily members. The ion channel binding region identified here may mimic the regulatory interaction of endogenous neuropeptides. Adaptations of the phospholipase subunit make it uniquely suited to targeting and explain the remarkable ability of the toxin to avoid binding to non-target membranes. Insight into the mechanism of beta-bungarotoxin gained here may lead to the development of therapeutic strategies against not only pathological cells, but also enveloped viruses.
8598927	Structural similarity between TAFs and the heterotetrameric core of the histone octamer.	A complex of two TFIID TATA box-binding protein-associated factors (TA FIIs) is described at 2.0A resolution. The amino-terminal portions of dTAFII42 and dTAFII62 from Drosophila adopt the canonical histone fold, consisting of two short alpha-helices flanking a long central alpha-helix. Like histones H3 and H4, dTAFII42 and dTAFII62 form an intimate heterodimer by extensive hydrophobic contacts between the paired molecules. In solution and in the crystalline state, the dTAFII42/dTAFII62 complex exists as a heterotetramer, resembling the (H3/H4)2 heterotetrameric core of the histone octamer, suggesting that TFIID contains a histone octamer-like substructure.
8601310	Crystal structure and mutational analysis of the human CDK2 kinase complex with cell cycle-regulatory protein CksHs1.	The 2.6 Angstrom crystal structure for human cyclin-dependent kinase 2(CDK2) in complex with CksHs1, a human homolog of essential yeast cell cycle-regulatory proteins suc1 and Cks1, reveals that CksHs1 binds via all four beta strands to the kinase C-terminal lobe. This interface is biologically critical, based upon mutational analysis, but far from the CDK2 N-terminal lobe, cyclin, and regulatory phosphorylation sites. CDK2 binds the Cks single domain conformation and interacts with conserved hydrophobic residues plus His-60 and Glu-63 in their closed beta-hinge motif conformation. The beta hinge opening to form the Cks beta-interchanged dimer sterically precludes CDK2 binding, providing a possible mechanism regulating CDK2-Cks interactions. One face of the complex exposes the sequence-conserved phosphate-binding region on Cks and the ATP-binding site on CDK2, suggesting that CKs may target CDK2 to other phosphoproteins during the cell cycle.
8601796	Interaction between the C terminus of NMDA receptor subunits and multiple members of the PSD-95 family of membrane-associated guanylate kinases.	Selective concentration and anchoring of ionotropic receptors at the synapse is essential for neuronal signaling. Little is known about the molecules that mediate receptor clustering in the CNS. With use of the yeast two-hybrid system to screen a rat brain cDNA library and by in vitro binding assays, we have identified an interaction between NMDA receptor subunits 2A and 2B (NR2A and NR2B) and three distinct members of the PSD-95/SAP90 family of membrane-associated putative guanylate kinases. The interaction is mediated by binding of the C terminus of the NMDA receptor subunits to the first two PDZ (also known as GLGF or DHR) domains of PSD-95/SAP90, an abundant synaptic protein associated with the membrane cytoskeleton. PSD-95 is also known to bind and cluster Shaker-type voltage-gated K+ channels. Similarities between the C-termini of NR2 subunits and K+ channels suggest a common C-terminal binding motif for PDZ domains. These data suggest that PDZ domains can function as modules for protein-protein interactions. Members of the PSD-95 family might serve to anchor NMDA receptors to the submembrane cytoskeleton and aid in the assembly of signal transduction complexes at postsynaptic sites.
8605630	Structural basis for the root effect in haemoglobin.	The remarkable ability of root effect haemoglobins to pump oxygen against high O2 gradients results from extreme, acid-induced reductions in O2 affinity and cooperativity. The long-sought mechanism for the root effect, revealed by the 2 angstrom crystal structure of the ligand-bound haemoglobin from Leiostomus xanthurus at pH 7.5, unexpectedly involves modulation of the R-state. Key residues strategically assemble positive-charge clusters across the allosteric beta1 beta2-interface in the R-state. At low pH, protonation of the beta N terminus and His 147(HC3)beta within these clusters is postulated to destabilize the R-state and promote the acid-triggered, allosteric R-->T switch with concomitant O2 release. Surprisingly, a set of residues specific to root effect haemoglobins recruit additional residues, conserved among most haemoglobins, to produce the root effect.
8607265	Identification of a cellular protein that specifically interacts with the essential cysteine region of the HIV-1 Tat transactivator.	The Tat protein of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a powerful activator of HIV gene expression. Genetic and biochemical evidence suggests that one or more cellular cofactors may be important for Tat activity. We have used two-hybrid interactive cloning in yeast to identify a partial cDNA clone (clone 10) from a human B-lymphoblastoid library that specifically interacts with the N-terminal 31 amino acids of HIV-1 Tat which contains the essential cysteine-rich portion of the Tat activation domain. The encoded protein also binds to purified Tat in vitro. Mutation of single essential cysteine residues in Tat abolishes interaction between Tat and clone 10, suggesting that interaction with the encoded protein is important for Tat activity. We have identified the full-length cDNA for the Tat binding protein and shown that overexpression of the encoded protein, Tip60 (Tat interactive protein, 60 kDa), results in a fourfold augmentation of Tat transactivation of the HIV-1 promoter in transient expression assays without increasing the basal activity of the HIV promoter or activating the heterologous RSV promoter. These data together with the genetic and in vitro binding data support the notion that Tip60 might be a cofactor of Tat involved in the regulation of HIV gene expression.
8612133	TNF-dependent recruitment of the protein kinase RIP to the TNF receptor-1 signaling complex.	The death domain of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-1 (TNFR1) triggers distinct signaling pathways leading to apoptosis and NF-kappa B activation through its interaction with the death domain protein TRADD. Here, we show that TRADD interacts strongly with RIP, another death domain protein that was shown previously to associate with Fas antigen. We also show that RIP is a serine-threonine kinase that is recruited by TRADD to TNFR1 in a TNF-dependent process. Overexpression of the intact RIP protein induces both NF-kappa B activation and apoptosis. However, expression of the death domain of RIP Induces apoptosis, but potently inhibits NF-kappa B activation by TNF. These results suggest that distinct domains of RIP participate in the TNF signaling cascades leading to apoptosis and NF-kappa B activation.
8612237	Huntingtin and DRPLA proteins selectively interact with the enzyme GAPDH.	At least five adult-onset neurodegenerative diseases, including Huntingtin disease (HD), and dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) are produced by genes containing a variably increased CAG repeat within the coding region. The size range of the repeats is similar in all diseases; unaffected individuals have fewer than 30 CAG repeats, whereas affected patients usually have more than 40 repeats. The size of the inherited CAG repeat correlates with the severity and age of disease onset. The CAG triplet repeat produces a polyglutamine domain in the expressed proteins. All of these diseases are inherited in a dominant fashion, and a pathologic gain of function in gene carriers has been proposed. We sought to identify proteins in the brain that selectively interact with polyglutamine-domain proteins, hypothesizing that the polyglutamine domain may determine protein-protein interactions.
8612272	LET-23 receptor localization by the cell junction protein LIN-7 during C. elegans vulval induction.	In C. elegans, the anchor cell signal induces Pn.p cells to form the vulva by activating a conserved receptor tyrosine kinase pathway. lin-2 and lin-7 mutants exhibit a vulvaless phenotype similar to the phenotype observed when this signaling pathway is defective. We have found that LIN-7 is a cell junction-associated protein that binds to the LET-23 receptor tyrosine kinase. LET-23 is also localized to the cell junctions, and both LIN-2 and LIN-7 are required for this localization. LET-23 overexpression rescues the lin-2 or lin-7 vulvaless phenotype, suggesting that increased receptor density can compensate for mislocalization. These results suggest that proper localization of LET-23 receptor to the Pn.p cell junctions is required for signaling activity.
8616895	A CBP integrator complex mediates transcriptional activation and AP-1 inhibition by nuclear receptors.	Nuclear receptors regulate gene expression by direct activation of target genes and inhibition of AP-1. Here we report that, unexpectedly, activation by nuclear receptors requires the actions of CREB-binding protein (CBP) and that inhibition of AP-1 activity is the apparent result of competition for limiting amounts of CBP/p300 in cells. Utilizing distinct domains, CBP directly interacts with the ligand-binding domain of multiple nuclear receptors and with the p160 nuclear receptor coactivators, which upon cloning have proven to be variants of the SRC-1 protein. Because CBP represents a common factor, required in addition to distinct coactivators for function of nuclear receptors, CREB, and AP-1, we suggest that CBP/p300 serves as an integrator of multiple signal transduction pathways within the nucleus.
8617242	The human papillomavirus type 16 E7 gene product interacts with and trans-activates the AP1 family of transcription factors.	The E7 gene product of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) binds to the retinoblastoma gene product (pRb) and dissociates pRb-E2F complexes. However, the observation that the ability of E7 to bind pRb is not required for the HPV16-induced immortalization of primary keratinocytes prompted a search for other cellular factors bound by E7. Using a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein system, we show that E7 complexes with AP1 transcription factors including c-Jun, JunB, JunD and c-Fos. The ability of E7 to complex with c-Jun in vivo is demonstrated by co-immunoprecipitation and the yeast two-hybrid system. An analysis of E7 point mutants in the GST system indicates that the E7 zinc-finger motif, but not the pRb binding domain, is involved in these interactions. Using c-Jun deletion mutants, E7 binding maps between amino acids 224 and 286 of c-Jun. E7 trans-activates c-Jun-induced transcription from a Jun responsive promoter, and this activity correlates with the ability of E7 mutants to bind Jun proteins. Finally, a transcriptionally inactive c-Jun deletion, which can bind E7, interferes with the E7-induced transformation of rat embryo fibroblasts in cooperation with an activated ras, indicating that the Jun-E7 interaction is physiologically relevant and that Jun factors may be targeted in the E7 transformation pathway.
8617715	Activation of protein kinase A inhibits interferon induction of the Jak/Stat pathway in U266 cells.	Activation of early response genes by interferons (IFNs) requires tyrosine phosphorylation of the Stat transcription factors and is mediated by the Jak family of tyrosine kinases. Recent evidence suggests that ERK2 serine/threonine kinase modulates the IFN-stimulated Jak/Stat pathway. In this report we show that in the myeloma cell line U266 protein kinase A specifically interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of the IFNalpha/beta receptor. Treatment of cells with the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin inhibits IFNbeta-, IFNgamma-, and hydrogen peroxide/vanadate-induced formation of complexes that bind to enhancers known to stimulate the expression of IFN-regulated genes. Immunoprecipitations followed by anti-phosphotyrosine immunoblots indicate that tyrosine phosphorylation of the alpha chain of the IFNalpha/beta receptor, Jak1, Tyk2, as well as Stat1 and Stat2 is reduced as a consequence of incubation of cells with forskolin. In contrast, dideoxyforskolin, which fails to activate adenylate cyclase, has no effect on IFN induction of the Jak/Stat pathway. These results indicate a novel regulatory mechanism by which protein kinase A can modulate the Jak/Stat signaling cascade.
8617811	Physical interaction between the mitogen-responsive serum response factor and myogenic basic-helix-loop-helix proteins.	Terminal differentiation of muscle cells results in opposite effects on gene promoters: muscle-specific promoters, which are repressed during active proliferation of myoblasts, are turned on, whereas at least some proliferation-associated promoters, such as c-fos, which are active during cell division, are turned off. MyoD and myogenin, transcription factors from the basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family, are involved in both processes, up-regulating muscle genes and down-regulating c-fos. On the other hand, the serum response factor (SRF) is involved in the activation of muscle-specific genes, such as c-fos, as well as in the up-regulation of a subset of genes that are responsive to mitogens. Upon terminal differentiation, the activity of these various transcription factors could be modulated by the formation of distinct protein-protein complexes. Here, we have investigated the hypothesis that the function of SRF and/or MyoD and myogenin could be modulated by a physical association between these transcription factors. We show that myogenin from differentiating myoblasts specifically binds to SRF. In vitro analysis, using the glutathione S-transferase pull-down assay, indicates that SRF-myogenin interactions occur only with myogenin-E12 heterodimers and not with isolated myogenin. A physical interaction between myogenin, E12, and SRF could also be demonstrated in vivo using a triple-hybrid approach in yeast. Glutathione S-transferase pull-down analysis of various mutants of the proteins demonstrated that the bHLH domain of myogenin and that of E12 were necessary and sufficient for the interaction to be observed. Specific binding to SRF was also seen with MyoD. In contrast, Id, a natural inhibitor of myogenic bHLH proteins, did not bind SRF in any of the situations tested. These data suggest that SRF, on one hand, and myogenic bHLH, on the other, could modulate each other's activity through the formation of a heterotrimeric complex.
8621483	Sos, Vav, and C3G participate in B cell receptor-induced signaling pathways and differentially associate with Shc-Grb2, Crk, and Crk-L adaptors.	B cell antigen receptor (BCR)-mediated signal transduction controls B cell proliferation and differentiation. The BCR activates Ras, presumably by the formation of a Shc-Grb2 adaptor complex, which recruits the Grb2-associated guanine nucleotide exchange factor Sos to the plasma membrane. In order to reveal additional BCR-induced signaling events involving the Grb2 adaptor, we undertook the isolation of Grb2-binding proteins. Using the yeast two-hybrid system and bacterial fusion proteins, Vav and C3G were identified as Grb2 binders. Vav is a putative nucleotide exchange factor and a target for BCR-induced tyrosine phosphorylation. C3G exerts nucleotide exchange activity on the Ras-related Rap1 protein. While Sos binds to both Grb2 Src homology-3 (SH3) domains, Vav was found to associate selectively with the carboxyl-terminal SH3 domain, while C3G bound selectively to the amino-terminal SH3 domain of bacterially expressed Grb2. Despite the association of Vav with Grb2 in vitro, we could not demonstrate an interaction between endogenous Vav and Grb2 molecules in primary B cells. Instead, Vav was found to inducibly associate with the Grb2-related adaptor protein Crk upon BCR stimulation. C3G did not bind to either Grb2, Shc, or Crk in vivo. Instead, C3G was found in association with the Crk-L adaptor, both before and after BCR stimulation. We show that Crk-L also participates in BCR signaling, since it inducibly interacts with tyrosine-phosphorylated Cbl. We conclude that, in addition to Sos, Vav and C3G play a role in BCR-mediated signal transduction. These guanine nucleotide exchange factors selectively associate with Grb2, Crk, and Crk-L, respectively, which may serve to direct them to different target molecules. Since Cbl binds to Grb2, Crk, as well as Crk-L, we hypothesize that Cbl may affect the function of all three exchangers.
8621530	Interaction between the Grb10 SH2 domain and the insulin receptor carboxyl terminus.	Grb10 is a member of a recently identified family of adapter proteins that are thought to play a role in receptor tyrosine kinase-mediated signal transduction. We identified and isolated the Grb10 SH2 domain based on its interaction with the intracellular domain of the insulin receptor beta-subunit using the yeast two-hybrid system. The interaction was specific for the insulin receptor and the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor, and it required a catalytically active receptor kinase domain and an intact Grb10 SH2 domain. Glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins containing the Grb10 SH2 domain associated in an insulin-dependent manner with insulin receptors from cell lysates and with purified insulin receptors. Co-precipitation experiments revealed the association of cellular Grb10 with hormone-stimulated insulin receptors in cell extracts. The Grb10 SH2 domain did not bind to an insulin receptor lacking 43 amino acids at the carboxyl terminus, and it exhibited highest affinity for a phosphopeptide containing Tyr(P)-1322. Unlike p85 and Syp, which also bind to Tyr(P)-1322, Grb10 was not found to associate with insulin receptor substrate-1. These results suggest that Grb10 is a novel insulin receptor interactive protein and provide direct evidence for an insulin receptor substrate-1-independent function of the insulin receptor carboxyl terminus in protein binding.
8621645	Co-purification and direct interaction of Ras with caveolin, an integral membrane protein of caveolae microdomains. Detergent-free purification of caveolae microdomains.	Caveolae are plasma membrane specializations that have been implicated in signal transduction. Caveolin, a 21-24-kDa integral membrane protein, is a principal structural component of caveolae membranes in vivo. G protein alpha subunits are concentrated in purified preparations of caveolae membranes, and caveolin interacts directly with multiple G protein alpha subunits, including G(s), G(o), and G(i2). Mutational or pharmacologic activation of G alpha subunits prevents the interaction of caveolin with G proteins, indicating that inactive G alpha subunits preferentially interact with caveolin. Here, we show that caveolin interacts with another well characterized signal transducer, Ras. Using a detergent-free procedure for purification of caveolin-rich membrane domains and a polyhistidine tagged form of caveolin, we find that Ras and other classes of lipid-modified signaling molecules co-fractionate and co-elute with caveolin. The association of Ras with caveolin was further evaluated using two distinct in vitro binding assays. Wild-type H-Ras interacted with glutathione S-transferase (GST)-caveolin fusion proteins but not with GST alone. Using a battery of GST fusion proteins encoding distinct regions of caveolin, Ras binding activity was localized to a 41-amino acid membrane proximal region of the cytosolic N-terminal domain of caveolin. In addition, reconstituted caveolin-rich membranes (prepared with purified recombinant caveolin and purified lipids) interacted with a soluble form of wild-type H-Ras but failed to interact with mutationally activated soluble H-Ras (G12V). Thus, a single amino acid change (G12V) that constitutively activates Ras prevents or destabilizes this interaction. These results clearly indicate that (i) caveolin is sufficient to recruit soluble Ras onto lipid membranes and (ii) membrane-bound caveolin preferentially interacts with inactive Ras proteins. In direct support of these in vitro studies, we also show that recombinant overexpression of caveolin in intact cells is sufficient to functionally recruit a nonfarnesylated mutant of Ras (C186S) onto membranes, overcoming the normal requirement for lipid modification of Ras. Taken together, these observations suggest that caveolin may function as a scaffolding protein to localize or sequester certain caveolin-interacting proteins, such as wild-type Ras, within caveolin-rich microdomains of the plasma membrane.
8621670	Systematic mutational analysis of the death domain of the tumor necrosis factor receptor 1-associated protein TRADD.	Tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNF-R1) mediates most of the biological properties of TNF including activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB and programmed cell death. An approximately 80-amino acid region within the intracellular domain of the receptor, termed the death domain, is required for signaling NF-kappaB activation and cytotoxicity. A TNF-R1-associated protein TRADD has been discovered that interacts with the death domain of the receptor. Elevated expression of TRADD in cells triggers both NF-kappaB activation and programmed cell death pathways. The biological activities of TRADD have been mapped to a 111-amino acid region within the carboxyl-terminal half of the protein. This region shows sequence similarity to the death domain of TNF-R1 and can self-associate and bind to the TNF-R1 death domain. We have performed an alanine scanning mutagenesis of TRADD's death domain to explore the relationship among its various functional properties. Mutations affecting the different activities of TRADD do not map to discrete regions but rather are spread over the entire death domain, suggesting that the death domain is a multifunctional unit. A mutant that separates cell killing from NF-kappaB activation by the TRADD death domain has been identified indicating that these two signaling pathways diverge with TRADD. Additionally, one of the TRADD mutants that fails to activate NF-kappaB was found to act as dominant negative mutant capable of preventing induction of NF-kappaB by TNFalpha. Such observations provide evidence that TRADD performs an obligate role in TNF-induced NF-kappaB activation.
8621719	p120cbl is a major substrate of tyrosine phosphorylation upon B cell antigen receptor stimulation and interacts in vivo with Fyn and Syk tyrosine kinases, Grb2 and Shc adaptors, and the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.	We and others have demonstrated that the c-cbl proto-oncogene product is one of the earliest targets of tyrosine phosphorylation upon T cell receptor stimulation. Given the similarities in the B and T lymphocyte antigen receptors, and the induction of pre-B leukemias in mice by the v-cbl oncogene, we examined the potential involvement of Cbl in B cell receptor signaling. We demonstrate prominent and early tyrosine phosphorylation of Cbl upon stimulation of human B cell lines through surface IgM. Cbl was associated in vivo with Fyn and, to a lesser extent, other Src family kinases. B cell activation also induced a prominent association of Cbl with Syk tyrosine kinase. A substantial fraction of Cbl was constitutively associated with Grb2 and this interaction was mediated by Grb2 SH3 domains. Tyrosine-phosphorylated Shc, which prominently associated with Grb2, was detected in association with Cbl in activated B cells. Thus, Grb2 and Shc adaptors, which associate with immunoreceptor tyrosine based activation motifs, may link Cbl to the B cell receptor. B cell activation also induced a prominent association between Cbl and the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase resulting in the association of a substantial fraction of PI 3-kinase activity with Cbl. Thus, Cbl is likely to play an important role to couple the B cell receptor to the PI 3-kinase pathway. Our results strongly suggest a role for p120cbl in signaling downstream of the B cell receptor and support the idea that Cbl participates in a general signal transduction function downstream of the immune cell surface receptors.
8624811	An altered position of the alpha 2 helix of MHC class I is revealed by the crystal structure of HLA-B*3501.	The crystal structure of the human major histocompatibility complex class I B allele HLA B*3501 complexed with the 8-mer peptide epitope HIV1 Nef 75-82 (VPLRPMTY) has been determined at 2.0 angstrom resolution. Comparison with the crystal structure of the closely related allele HLA B*5301 reveals the structural basis for the tyrosine specificity of the B*3501 F pocket. The structure also reveals a novel conformation of the 8-mer peptide within the binding groove. The positions of the peptide N and C termini are nonstandard, but the classic pattern of hydrogen bonding to nonpolymorphic MHC class I residues is maintained, at the N terminus by addition of a water molecule, and at the C terminus by a substantial shift in the alpha 2 helix.
8624812	Bound water structure and polymorphic amino acids act together to allow the binding of different peptides to MHC class I HLA-B53.	The structure of the human MHC class I molecule HLA-B53 complexed to two nonameric peptide epitopes (from the malaria parasite P. falciparum and the HIV2 gag protein) has been determined by X-ray crystallography at 2.3 angstrom resolution. The structures reveal the architecture of a Pro-specific B pocket common to many HLA-B alleles. Relative to other alleles, the B53 peptide-binding groove is widened by a significant (up to 1.25 angstrom) shift in the position of the alpha 1 helix. Within this groove, bound water molecules, acting in concert with the side chains of polymorphic residues, provide the functional malleability of the MHC, which enables the high affinity/low specificity binding of multiple peptide epitopes.
8625410	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein, a novel effector for the GTPase CDC42Hs, is implicated in actin polymerization.	The Rho family of GTPases control diverse biological processes, including cell morphology and mitogenesis. We have identified WASP, the protein that is defective in Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), as a novel effector for CDC42Hs, but not for the other Rho family members, Rac and Rho. This interaction is dependent on the presence of the G protein-binding domain. Cellular expression of epitope-tagged WASP produces clusters of WASP that are highly enriched in polymerized actin. This clustering is not observed with a C-terminally deleted WASP and is inhibited by coexpression with dominant negative CDC42Hs-N17, but not with dominant negative forms of Rac or Rho. Thus, WASP provides a novel link between CDC42Hs and the actin cytoskeleton, which suggests a molecular mechanism for many of the cellular abnormalities in WAS. The WASP sequence contains two novel domains that are homologous to other proteins involved in action organization.
8626325	Specific in vivo protein-protein interactions between Escherichia coli SOS mutagenesis proteins.	One of the components of the RecA-LexA-controlled SOS response in Escherichia coli cells is an inducible error-prone DNA replication pathway that results in a substantial increase in the mutation rate. It is believed that error-prone DNA synthesis is performed by a multiprotein complex that is formed by UmuC, UmuD', RecA, and probably DNA polymerase III holoenzyme. It is postulated that the formation of such a complex requires specific interactions between these proteins. We have analyzed the specific protein-protein interactions between UmuC, UmuD, and UmuD' fusion proteins, using a Saccharomyces cerevisiae two-hybrid system. In agreement with previous in vitro data, we have shown that UmuD and UmuD' are able to form both homodimers (UmuD-UmuD and UmuD'-UmuD') and a heterodimer (UmuD-UmuD'). Our data show that UmuC fusion protein is capable of interacting exclusively with UmuD' and not with UmuD. Thus, posttranslational processing of UmuD into UmuD' is a critical step in SOS mutagenesis, enabling only the latter protein to interact with UmuC. Our data seem to indicate that the integrity of the entire UmuC sequence is essential for UmuC-UmuD' heterotypic interaction. Finally, in our studies, we used three different UmuC mutant proteins: UmuC25, UmuC36, and UmuC104. We have found that UmuC25 and UmuC36 are not capable of associating with UmuD'. In contrast, UmuC104 protein interacts with UmuD' protein with an efficiency identical to that of the wild-type protein. We postulate that UmuC104 protein might be defective in interaction with another, unknown protein essential for the SOS mutagenesis pathway.
8626516	Receptor recognition and specificity of interleukin-8 is determined by residues that cluster near a surface-accessible hydrophobic pocket.	To determine the regions of interleukin-8 (IL-8) that allow high affinity and interleukin-8 receptor type 1 (IL8R1)-specific binding of chemokines, we produced chimeric proteins containing structural domains from IL-8, which binds to both IL8R1 and interleukin-8 receptor type 2 (IL8R2) with high affinity, and from GRO gamma, which does not bind to IL8R1 and binds to IL8R2 with reduced affinity. Receptor binding activity was tested by competition of 125I-IL-8 binding to recombinant IL8R1 and IL8R2 cell lines. Substitution into IL-8 of the GRO gamma sequences corresponding to either the amino-terminal loop (amino acids 1-18) or the first beta-sheet (amino acids 18-32) reduced binding to both IL8R1 and IL8R2. The third beta-sheet of IL-8 (amino acids 46-53) was required for binding to IL8R1 but not IL8R2. Exchanges of the second beta-sheet (amino acids 32-46) or the carboxyl-terminal alpha-helix (amino acids 53-72) had no significant effect. When IL-8 sequences were substituted into GRO gamma, a single domain containing the second beta-sheet of IL-8 (amino acids 18-32) was sufficient to confer high affinity binding for both IL8R1 and IL8R2. The amino-terminal loop (amino acids 1-18) and the third beta-sheet (amino acids 46-53) of IL-8 had little effect when substituted individually but showed increased binding to both receptors when substituted in combination. Individual amino acid substitutions were made at positions where IL-8 and GRO gamma sequences differ within the regions of residues 11-21 and 46-53. IL-8 mutations L49A or L49F selectively inhibited binding to IL8R1. Mutations Y13L and F21N enhanced binding to IL8R1 with little effect on IL8R2. A combined mutation Y13L/S14Q selectively decreased binding to IL8R2. Residues Tyr13, Ser14, Phe21, and Lys49 are clustered in and around a surface-accessible hydrophobic pocket on IL-8 that is physically distant from the previously identified ELR binding sequence. A homology model of GRO gamma, constructed from the known structure of IL-8 by refinement calculations, indicated that access to the hydrophobic pocket was effectively abolished in GRO gamma. These studies suggest that the surface hydrophobic pocket and/or adjacent residues participate in IL-8 receptor recognition for both IL8R1 and IL8R2 and that the hydrophobic pocket itself may be essential for IL8R1 binding. Thus this region contains a second site for IL-8 receptor recognition that, in combination with the Glu4-Leu5-Arg6 region, can modulate receptor binding affinity and IL8R1 specificity.
8626561	Association between mitogen-activated protein kinase and the zeta chain of the T cell receptor (TcR) with the SH2,3 domain of p56lck. Differential regulation by TcR cross-linking.	A number of protein-tyrosine kinases have been shown to be important in T cell activation. One such kinase, Lck, has been demonstrated genetically to be essential for T cell receptor (TcR) signaling, and the SH2 and SH3 (src homology 2 and 3) domains of Lck have been shown to be indispensable for T cell activation. We have sought substrates with which the SH2,3 domain would interact following T cell activation, using fusion proteins containing the Lck SH2 and SH3 domains linked to glutathione S-transferase. We demonstrate that the SH2,3 region interacts specifically and directly with numerous tyrosine-phosphorylated molecules following TcR cross-linking, including constitutively with mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular-regulated kinase and inducibly with the zeta chain of the TcR. The interaction with MAPK/extracellular-regulated kinase was via the SH3 domain. The interaction with the tyrosine-phosphorylated zeta chain, while phosphotyrosine-dependent, required both the SH3 and SH2 domains. These interactions were specific as molecules known to be tyrosine-phosphorylated following TcR cross-linking, phospholipase C-gamma1 and Fyn, were not bound. Thus, we suggest that during TcR signaling, Lck interacts with numerous molecules, including MAPK and TcR-zeta, via its SH2,3 domain. The interaction with MAPK would place Lck in a position to be involved in the complex resulting in the activation of MAPK. In addition, the binding of Lck to the tyrosine-phosphorylated zeta chain of the TcR would serve to strengthen the interaction of the associated CD4 and the TcR complex, leading to increased avidity for the antigen-major histocompatibility protein complex.
8627785	The amino-terminal domains of Epstein-Barr virus nuclear proteins 3A, 3B, and 3C interact with RBPJ(kappa).	The ability of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent infection nuclear protein EBNA3C to activate transcription of two EBNA2-responsive genes and to inhibit EBNA2 activation of transcription in transient-transfection assays appears to be due to its ability to interact with RBPJkappa, a cell protein that links EBNA2 to its response elements. We now show that EBNA3A and EBNA3B expressed in non-EBV-infected Burkitt tumor lymphoblasts are similar to EBNA3C in binding to glutathione S-transferase-RBPJkappa in vitro and in coimmunoprecipitating from cell lysates with antibody to RBPJkappa. EBNA3A and EBNA3B can also inhibit the interaction of RBPJkappa with cognate DNA in vitro. Although EBNA3 open reading frames are each close to 1,000 codons long, EBNA3A amino acids 1 to 138, EBNA3B amino acids 1 to 311, and EBNA3C amino acids 1 to 183 are sufficient for RBPJkappa interaction, while EBNA3B amino acids I to 109 have less or no binding. The RBPJkappa interacting domains overlap with the most highly conserved domain (amino acids 90 to 320) among the EBNA3 proteins. Thus, the EBNA3 gene family appears to have evolved to differentially regulate promoters with RBPJkappa binding sites. EBNA2, EBNA3A, and EBNA3C are important in EBV transformation of primary human B lymphocytes. Their interaction with RBPJkappa links EBV transformation to the notch signaling pathway and the effects of activated notch in T-cell leukemogenesis.
8631704	A mutational analysis of the interaction between FliG and FliM, two components of the flagellar motor of Escherichia coli.	The motor that drives the flagellar filament of Escherichia coli contains three "switch" proteins (FliG, FliM, and FliN) that together determine the direction of rotation. Each is required, in addition, for flagellar assembly and for torque generation. These proteins interact in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae two-hybrid system: FliG interacts with FliM, FliM interacts with itself, and FliM interacts with FliN. The interaction between FliG and FliM has been subjected to mutational analysis. FliG (fused to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain) and FliM (fused to a GAL4 transcription activation domain) together activate transcription of a GAL4-dependent lacZ reporter gene. DNA encoding FliG was mutagenized by error-prone amplification with Taq polymerase, mutant fliG genes were cloned (as DNA-binding domain-fliG gene fusions) in S. cerevisiae by gap repair of plasmid DNA, and mutants exhibiting an interaction defect were isolated in a two-hybrid screen. The mutations were each mapped to the first, second, or last third of the fliG gene by multifragment cloning in vivo and then identified by DNA sequencing. In this way, we identified 18 interaction-defective and 15 silent (non-interaction-defective) fliG mutations. Several residues within the middle third of FliG are strongly involved in the FliG-FliM interaction, while residues near the N or C terminus are less important. This clustering, when compared with results of previous studies, suggests that the FliG-FliM interaction plays a central role in switching.
8631771	Proapoptotic protein Bax heterodimerizes with Bcl-2 and homodimerizes with Bax via a novel domain (BH3) distinct from BH1 and BH2.	Most members of the Bcl-2 protein family of apoptosis regulating proteins contain two evolutionarily conserved domains, termed BH1 and BH2. Both BH1 and BH2 in the Bcl-2 protein are required for its function as an inhibitor of cell death and for heterodimerization with the proapoptotic protein Bax. In this report, we mapped the region in Bax required for heterodimerization with Bcl-2 and homodimerization with Bax, using yeast two-hybrid and in vitro protein-protein interaction assays. Neither the BH1 nor the BH2 domain of Bax was required for binding to the wild-type Bcl-2 and Bax proteins. Moreover, Bax (deltaBH1) and Bax (deltaBH2) mutant proteins bound efficiently to themselves and each other, further confirming the lack of requirement for BH1 and BH2 for Bax/Bax homodimerization. Bax/Bax homodimerization was not dependent on the inclusion of the NH2-terminal 58 amino acids of the Bax protein in each dimerization partner, unlike Bcl-2/Bcl-2 homodimers which involve head-to-tail interactions between the region of Bcl-2 where BH1 and BH2 resides, and an NH2-terminal domain in Bcl-2 that contains another domain BH4 which is conserved among antiapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family. Similarly, heterodimerization with Bcl-2 occurred without the NH2-terminal domain of either Bax or Bcl-2, suggesting a tail-to-tail interaction. The essential region in Bax required for both homodimerization with Bax and heterodimerization with Bcl-2 was mapped to residues 59-101. This region in Bax contains a stretch of 15 amino acids that is highly homologous in several members of the Bcl-2 protein family, suggesting the existence of a novel functional domain which we have termed BH3. Deletion of this 15-amino acid region abolished the ability of Bax to dimerize with itself and to heterodimerize with Bcl-2. The findings suggest that the structural features of Bax and Bcl-2 that allow them to participate in homo-and heterodimerization phenomena are markedly different, despite their amino-acid sequence similarity.
8631991	The Ras-related GTPase Rac1 binds tubulin.	The Ras-related Rho family are involved in controlling actin-based changes in cell morphology. Microinjection of Rac1, RhoA, and Cdc42Hs into Swiss 3T3 cells induces pinocytosis and membrane ruffling, stress fiber formation, and filopodia formation, respectively. To identify target proteins involved in these signaling pathways cell extracts immobilized on nitrocellulose have been probed with [gamma-32P]GTP-labeled Rac1, RhoA, and Cdc42Hs. We have identified two 55-kDa brain proteins which bind Rac1 but not RhoA or Cdc42Hs. These 55-kDa proteins were abundant, had pI values of around 5.5, and could be purified by Q-Sepharose chromatography. The characteristics on two-dimensional gel analysis suggested the proteins comprised alpha- and beta-tubulin. Indeed, beta-tubulin specific antibodies detected one of the purified 55-kDa proteins. Rac1 bound pure tubulin (purified by cycles of polymerization and depolymerization) only in the GTP-bound state. The GTPase negative Rac1 point mutants, G12V and Q61L, did not significantly affect the ability of Rac1 to interact with tubulin while the "effector-site" mutant D38A prevented interaction. These results suggest that the Rac1-tubulin interaction may play a role in Rac1 function.
8634241	X-ray structures of a designed binding site in trypsin show metal-dependent geometry.	The three-dimensional structures of complexes of trypsin N143H, E151H bound to ecotin A86H are determined at 2.0 A resolution via X-ray crystallography in the absence and presence of the transition metals Zn2+, Ni2+, and Cu2+. The binding site for these transition metals was constructed by substitution of key amino acids with histidine at the trypsin-ecotin interface in the S2'/P2' pocket. Three histidine side chains, two on trypsin at positions 143 and 151 and one on ecotin at position 86, anchor the metals and provide extended catalytic recognition for substrates with His in the P2' pocket. Comparisons of the three-dimensional structures show the different geometries that result upon the binding of metal in the engineered tridentate site and suggest a structural basis for the kinetics of the metal-regulated catalysis. Of the three metals, the binding of zinc results in the most favorable binding geometry, not dissimilar to those observed in naturally occurring zinc binding proteins.
8639538	Modulation of DNA topoisomerase I activity by p53.	The tumor suppressor protein p53 plays a central role in the cellular response to genotoxic lesions and has been shown to be activated by most anticancer agents such as mitomycin C. We here show that mitomycin C treatment of human MCF7 breast adenocarcinoma cells results in increased topoisomerase I activity as measured by relaxation of supercoiled DNA and by phosphorylation of SR protein splicing factor. The increase in catalytic activity occurs in parallel with the nuclear accumulation of p53, resulting in detectable activation of topoisomerase I within less than 1 h of drug treatment. Furthermore, topoisomerase I co-immunoprecipitates with nuclear p53, suggesting that the activation of topoisomerase I may be a result of a direct interaction between the two proteins. In vitro experiments with purified recombinant proteins show that p53 increases the catalytic activities of topoisomerase I as measured by relaxation of supercoiled DNA, stabilization of the covalent topoisomerase I-DNA complex (in the presence of camptothecin), and phosphorylation of SR protein splicing factor ASF/SF2. Furthermore, topoisomerase I sediments at a higher molecular weight in the presence of p53 as revealed by sucrose density gradient analysis in the absence of DNA. Finally, p53 modifies the thermal stability of topoisomerase I, protecting it from heat denaturation. Taken together, our results show that topoisomerase I and p53 form molecular complexes in vitro as in vivo, and we suggest that the p53-mediated response to DNA damage may, at least in part, involve activation of topoisomerase I.
8641286	Rho-associated kinase, a novel serine/threonine kinase, as a putative target for small GTP binding protein Rho.	The small GTP binding protein Rho is implicated in cytoskeletal responses to extracellular signals such as lysophosphatidic acid to form stress fibers and focal contacts. Here we have purified a Rho-interacting protein with a molecular mass of approximately 164 kDa (p164) from bovine brain. This protein bound to GTPgammaS (a non-hydrolyzable GTP analog).RhoA but not to GDP.RhoA or GTPgammaS.RhoA with a mutation in the effector domain (RhoAA37).p164 had a kinase activity which was specifically stimulated by GTPgammaS.RhoA. We obtained the cDNA encoding p164 on the basis of its partial amino acid sequences and named it Rho-associated kinase (Rho-kinase). Rho-kinase has a catalytic domain in the N-terminal portion, a coiled coil domain in the middle portion and a zinc finger-like motif in the C-terminal portion. The catalytic domain shares 72% sequence homology with that of myotonic dystrophy kinase and the coiled coil domain contains a Rho-interacting interface. When COS7 cells were cotransfected with Rho-kinase and activated RhoA, some Rho-kinase was recruited to membranes. Thus it is likely that Rho-kinase is a putative target serine/threonine kinase for Rho and serves as a mediator of the Rho-dependent signaling pathway.
8642594	Atomic structure of the degraded procapsid particle of the bacteriophage G4: induced structural changes in the presence of calcium ions and functional implications.	Bacteriophage G4 and phiX174 are members of the Microviridae family. The degree of similarity of the structural proteins ranges from 66% identity of the F protein to 40% identity of the G protein. The atomic structure of the phiX174 virion had previously been determined by X-ray crystallography. Bacteriophage G4 procapsids, consisting of the structural proteins F, G, D, B, H, and small traces of J but no DNA, were set up for crystallization. However, the resultant crystals were of degraded procapsid particles, which had lost the assembly scaffolding proteins D and B, resulting in particles that resembled empty virions. The structure of the degraded G4 procapsid has been determined to 3.0 angstrom resolution. The particles crystallized in the hexagonal space group P6(3)22 with unit cell dimensions a=b=414.2(5) angstrom and c=263.0(3) angstrom. The diffraction data were collected at the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source (CHESS) on film and image plates using oscillation photography. Packing considerations indicated there were two particles per unit cell. A self-rotation function confirmed that the particles were positioned on 32 point group special positions in the unit cell. Initial phases were calculated to 6 angstrom resolution, based on the known phiX174 virion model. Phase information was then extended in steps to 3.0 angstrom resolution by molecular replacement electron density modification and particle envelope generation. The resulting electron density map was readily interpretable in terms of the F and G polypeptides, as occur in the mature capsid of phiX174. In a few regions of the electron density map there were inconsistencies between the density and the published amino acid sequence. Redetermining the amino acid sequence confirmed that the density was correct. The r.m.s. deviation between the Calpha backbone of the mature capsid of phiX174 and the degraded G4 procapsid was 0.36 angstrom for the F protein and 1.38 angstrom for the G protein. This is consistent with the greater conservation of the F protein compared to the G protein sequences among members of the Microviridae family. Functionally important features between phiX174 and G4 had greater conservation. Calcium ions (Ca2+) were shown to bind to G4 at a general site located near the icosahedral 3-fold axis on the F protein capsid, equivalent to sites found previously in phiX174. Binding of Ca2+ also caused the ordering of the conserved region of the DNA binding protein J, which was present in the degraded procapsid particle in the absence of DNA.
8643525	Expansion of polyglutamine repeat in huntingtin leads to abnormal protein interactions involving calmodulin.	Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder associated with expansion of a CAG repeat in the IT15 gene. The IT15 gene is translated to a protein product termed huntingtin that contains a polyglutamine (polyGln) tract. Recent investigations indicate that the cause of HD is expansion of the polyGln tract. However, the function of huntingtin and how the expanded polyGln tract causes HD is not known. We investigate potential protein-protein interactions of huntingtin using affinity resins. Huntingtin from brain extracts is retained on calmodulin(CAM)-Sepharose in a calcium-dependent fashion. We purify rat huntingtin to apparent homogeneity using a combination of DEAE-cellulose column chromatography, ammonium sulfate precipitation, and preparative SDS/PAGE. Purified rat huntingtin does not interact with CAM directly as revealed by 125I-CAM overlay. Huntingtin forms a large CAM-containing complex of over 1,000 kDa in the presence of calcium, which partially disassociates in the absence of calcium. Furthermore, an increased amount of mutant huntingtin from HD patient brains is retained on CAM-Sepharose compared to normal huntingtin from control patient brains, and the mutant allele is preferentially retained on CAM-Sepharose in the absence of calcium. These results suggest that huntingtin interacts with other proteins including CAM and that the expansion of polyGln alters this interaction.
8648648	Evidence that a kissing loop structure facilitates genomic RNA dimerisation in HIV-1.	Genomic RNA isolated from retroviral particles is a dimer composed of two identical strands. A region called the dimer linkage signal close to the 5' end of the RNA may be involved in forming the dimer. Several models for the formation of the HIV-1 RNA dimer have been proposed. In the kissing loop model, dimerisation results from base-pairing between homologous sequences in an RNA stem-loop. In the guanine tetrad model interstrand guanine contacts from the dimer. We have made mutations preventing the dimerisation of subgenomic RNAs in vitro by these mechanisms. To prevent the kissing loop dimer forming we changed the complementary loop sequence from 711GCGCGC716 to 711AAACGC716. To prevent the guanine tetrad dimer forming we changed G819 to U. These mutations were introduced into a clone of HIV-1NL4-3 separately and collectively. All three clones produced infectious virions. Dimeric RNA with similar thermal stabilities was isolated from viruses containing either the single or the double mutations. The results suggest that sequences involved in forming a guanine tetrad are not important for HIV-1 RNA dimerisation. In contrast sequences involved in forming a kissing loop complex are not absolutely required, but are important in forming a stable HIV-1 RNA dimer.
8649369	AKR1 encodes a candidate effector of the G beta gamma complex in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae pheromone response pathway and contributes to control of both cell shape and signal transduction.	Mating pheromones of Saccharomyces cerevisiae control both signal transduction events and changes in cell shape. The G beta gamma complex of the pheromone receptor-coupled G protein activates the signal transduction pathway, leading to transcriptional induction and cell cycle arrest, but how pheromone-dependent signalling leads to cell shape changes is unclear. We used a two-hybrid system to search for proteins that interact with the G beta gamma complex and that might be involved in cell shape changes. We identified the ankyrin repeat-containing protein Akr1p and show here that it interacts with the free G beta gamma complex. This interaction may be regulated by pheromone, since Akr1p is excluded from the G alpha beta gamma heterotrimer. Both haploid and diploid cells lacking Akr1p grow slowly and develop deformed buds or projections, suggesting that this protein participates in the control of cell shape. In addition, Akr1p has a negative influence on the pheromone response pathway. Epistasis analysis demonstrates that this negative effect does not act on the G beta gamma complex but instead affects the kinase cascade downstream of G beta gamma, so that the kinase Ste20p and components downstream of Ste20p (e.g., Ste11p and Ste7p) are partially activated in cells lacking Akr1p. Although the elevated signalling is eliminated by deletion of Ste20p (or components downstream of Ste20p), the growth and morphological abnormalities of cells lacking Akr1p are not rescued by deletion of any of the known pheromone response pathway components. We therefore propose that Akr1p negatively affects the activity of a protein that both controls cell shape and contributes to the pheromone response pathway upstream of Ste20p but downstream of G beta gamma. Specifically, because recent evidence suggests that Bem1p, Cdc24p, and Cdc42p can act in the pheromone response pathway, we suggest that Akr1p affects the functions of these proteins, by preventing them from activating mating-specific targets including the pheromone-responsive kinase cascade, until G beta gamma is activated by pheromone.
8662627	The ear of alpha-adaptin interacts with the COOH-terminal domain of the Eps 15 protein.	The role of Eps15 in clathrin-mediated endocytosis is supported by two observations. First, it interacts specifically and constitutively with the plasma membrane adaptor AP-2. Second, its NH2 terminus shows significant homology to the NH2 terminus of yeast End3p, necessary for endocytosis of alpha-factor. To gain further insight into the role of Eps15-AP-2 association, we have now delineated their sites of interactions. AP-2 binds to a domain of 72 amino acids (767-739) present in the COOH terminus of Eps15. This domain contains 4 of the 15 DPF repeats characteristic of the COOH-terminal domain of Eps15 and shares no homology with known proteins, including the related Epsl5r protein. Precipitation of proteolytic fragments of AP-2 with Eps15-derived fusion proteins containing the binding site for AP-2 showed that Eps15 binds specifically to a 40-kDa fragment corresponding to the ear of alpha-adaptin, a result confirmed by precipitation of Eps15 by alpha-adaptin-derived fusion proteins. Our data indicate that this specific part of AP-2 binds to a cellular component and provide the tools for investigating the functions of the association between AP-2 and Eps15.
8662660	RNA polymerase II-associated protein (RAP) 74 binds transcription factor (TF) IIB and blocks TFIIB-RAP30 binding.	A set of deletion mutants of human RNA polymerase II-associated protein (RAP) 30, the small subunit of transcription factor IIF (TFIIF; RAP30/74), was constructed to map functional domains. Mutants were tested for accurate transcriptional activity, RAP74 binding, and TFIIB binding. Transcription assays indicate the importance of both N- and C-terminal sequences for RAP30 function. RAP74 binds to the N-terminal region of RAP30 between amino acids 1 and 98. TFIIB binds to an overlapping region of RAP30, localized to amino acids 1-176 (amino acids 27-152 comprise a minimal binding region). The C-terminal region of RAP74 (amino acids 358-517) binds directly and independently to TFIIB. Interestingly, RAP74 blocks TFIIB-RAP30 binding, both by binding TFIIB and by binding RAP30. When the TFIIF complex is intact, therefore, TFIIB-TFIIF contact is maintained through RAP74. If the TFIIB-RAP30 interaction is physiologically important, the TFIIF complex must dissociate within some transcription complexes.
8662806	Interaction of insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS-2) with the insulin and insulin-like growth factor I receptors. Evidence for two distinct phosphotyrosine-dependent interaction domains within IRS-2.	Insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS-2) has recently been shown to be a substrate of the insulin receptor (IR). In this study we utilize the yeast two-hybrid system and assays of in vitro interaction to demonstrate that IRS-2 interacts directly with the IR and the insulin-like growth factor I receptor. We show that, like IRS-1, the region of IRS-2 that contains the putative phosphotyrosine binding and SAIN elements (188-591) is sufficient for receptor interaction and that this interaction is dependent upon the NPX(p)Y (where (p)Y is phosphotyrosine) motifs within the juxtamembrane domains of the receptors. In addition to this amino-terminal NPX(p)Y-binding domain, an additional domain of strong interaction was identified in the central region of IRS-2 and was localized between amino acids 591 and 733. This interaction was found to be dependent upon receptor phosphorylation but was NPX(p)Y-independent. This region does not appear to have either an SH2 or a phosphotyrosine binding domain. Both of the interactions could also be demonstrated in vitro using IRS-2 glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins. We conclude that IRS-2, unlike IRS-1, can interact with tyrosine-phosphorylated receptors such as the IR and insulin-like growth factor I receptor via multiple independent binding motifs. Our findings suggest the existence of a previously unidentified phosphotyrosine-dependent binding domain within the central region of IRS-2.
8662921	p130Cas, a substrate associated with v-Src and v-Crk, localizes to focal adhesions and binds to focal adhesion kinase.	p130(Cas) (crk associated substrate) has the structural characteristics of an adapter protein, containing multiple consensus SH2 binding sites, an SH3 domain, and a proline-rich domain. The structure of p130(Cas) suggests that it may act to provide a framework for protein-protein interactions; however, as yet, its functional role in cells is unknown. In this report we show that p130(Cas) is localized to focal adhesions. We demonstrate that p130(Cas) associates both in vitro and in vivo with pp125(FAK) (focal adhesion kinase), a kinase implicated in signaling by the integrin family of cell adhesion receptors. p130(Cas) also associates with pp41/43(FRNK) (pp125(FAK)-related, non-kinase), an autonomously expressed form of pp125(FAK) composed of only the C-terminal noncatalytic domain. We show that the association of p130(Cas) with pp125(Fak) and pp41/43(FRNK) is direct, and is mediated by the binding of the SH3 domain of p130(Cas) to a proline-rich sequence present in both the C terminus of pp125(FAK) and in pp41/43(FRNK). In agreement with recent studies we show that p130(Cas) is tyrosine-phosphorylated upon integrin mediated cell adhesion. The association of p130(Cas) with pp125(FAK), a kinase which is activated upon cell adhesion, is likely to be functionally important in integrin mediated signal transduction.
8662954	Physical and functional association between GADD153 and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein beta during cellular stress.	GADD153, a ubiquitously expressed member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family is induced by a wide variety of growth-arresting and DNA-damaging agents. Functionally, GADD153 has been postulated to act as a dominant-negative regulator of C/EBPs. Therefore we sought to gain evidence for interactions between GADD153 and other C/EBPs during cellular responses to stress. In this report we have demonstrated that treatment of rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells with sodium arsenite leads to enhanced expression of C/EBP-beta and GADD153 (growth arrest and DNA damage inducible gene 153) but not other C/EBPs. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments provided evidence for the formation of endogenous GADD153-C/EBP-beta complexes in arsenite-treated cells. Additional experiments were performed to determine the role of such complexes in regulating GADD153 expression. Previous studies in our laboratory demonstrated that the GADD153 promoter contains a C/EBP binding site through which other C/EBPs interact to transactivate GADD153 expression in liver hepatoma cells. Here, we demonstrate that extracts prepared from arsenite-treated PC12 cells likewise show increased amounts of factors capable of binding to the GADD153-C/EBP site and that these complexes are comprised at least in part of C/EBP-beta. Forced expression of C/EBP-beta was found to be capable of transactivating the GADD153 promoter in PC12 cells cotransfected with plasmids expressing a GADD153 reporter gene and C/EBP-beta protein. However, overexpression of GADD153 inhibited the transactivation of the GADD153 promoter by C/EBP-beta. These findings provide evidence for an autoregulatory loop in which stress-induced GADD153 feeds back to attenuate GADD153 expression during the cellular response to stress.
8662998	Tyrosine phosphorylation of Cbl upon epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulation and its association with EGF receptor and downstream signaling proteins.	We and others have shown that Cbl, the protein product of the c-cbl proto-oncogene, is an early target of tyrosine phosphorylation upon stimulation through the immune cell surface receptors, which signal through noncovalently associated cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases. Using human mammary epithelial cells that express a natural epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and require EGF as an essential growth factor, we demonstrate here that Cbl is a prominent target of tyrosine phosphorylation upon stimulation through the EGF receptor tyrosine kinase. Phosphorylation of Cbl was EGF dose-dependent, rapid (detectable as early as 5 s and maximal by 2 min), and relatively sustained (detectable even after 1 h). Co-immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated that Cbl became associated with the EGF receptor in an EGF-dependent manner. Cbl was basally associated with the adaptor protein growth factor receptor-binding protein 2 (Grb2), and this interaction was further enhanced by EGF stimulation; however, the interaction was entirely mediated via the Grb2 Src homology 3 (SH3) domains, suggesting that binding of Grb2 SH2 domain to EGF receptor provides one mechanism of Cbl's association with the EGF receptor. EGF stimulation also induced the association of Cbl with Src homology and collagen (Shc) protein, p85 subunit of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and Crk proteins, in particular with the CrkL isoform. Interactions of Cbl with the EGF receptor and multiple downstream signaling proteins suggest a role for this proto-oncogene product in mitogenic signaling through growth factor receptor kinases.
8663024	p120 Ras GTPase-activating protein interacts with Ras-GTP through specific conserved residues.	Previous structural studies of RasGAP have failed to clearly localize sites of Ras interaction to individual amino acids. Hypothesizing that sites of interaction with Ras-GTP would be conserved, 11 of the most highly conserved amino acid residues of RasGAP were changed by mutation. Each mutant protein was purified as a glutathione S-transferase catalytic domain fusion and analyzed for protein stability, Ras GTPase stimulating activity, affinity for Ras-GTP, and when possible, secondary structure. The majority of conserved positions were found to be important structurally but with no direct role in Ras interactions. However, Arg786, Lys831, and Arg925 were observed to be essential for binding to Ras-GTP but not for protein structure. RasGAP residues 890-902 (block 3A) were observed to be homologous to residues 1540-1552 of the yeast adenylyl cyclase with amino acid substitutions in both regions resulting in increased affinity for Ras. This is the first example of a conserved Ras interaction motif in distinct Ras effector proteins. Our data are supportive of a model for GAP/Ras-GTP association in which the conserved, positively charged Arg786, Lys831, and Arg925 residues form salt bridges with the conserved, negatively charged residues in the Ras effector loop.
8663146	The mammalian immediate-early TIS21 protein and the leukemia-associated BTG1 protein interact with a protein-arginine N-methyltransferase.	The TIS21 immediate-early gene and leukemia-associated BTG1 gene encode proteins with similar sequences. Two-hybrid analysis identified a protein that interacts with TIS21 and BTG1. Sequence motifs associated with S-adenosyl-L-methionine binding suggested this protein might have methyltransferase activity. A glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion of the putative methyltransferase modifies arginine residues, in appropriate protein substrates, to form NG-monomethyl and NG,NG-dimethylarginine (asymmetric). We term the protein- arginine N-methyltransferase (EC 2.1.1.23) gene "PRMT1, " for protein-arginine methyltransferase 1. GST-TIS21 and GST-BTG1 fusion proteins qualitatively and quantitatively modulate endogenous PRMT1 activity, using control and hypomethylated RAT1 cell extracts as methyl-accepting substrates. PRMT1 message appears ubiquitous, and is constitutive in mitogen-stimulated cells. Modulation of PRMT1 activity by transiently expressed regulatory subunits may be an additional mode of signal transduction following ligand stimulation.
8663314	Molecular cloning and functional characterization of a novel human CC chemokine receptor (CCR5) for RANTES, MIP-1beta, and MIP-1alpha.	Chemokines affect leukocyte chemotactic and activation activities through specific G protein-coupled receptors. In an effort to map the closely linked CC chemokine receptor genes, we identified a novel chemokine receptor encoded 18 kilobase pairs downstream of the monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) receptor (CCR2) gene on human chromosome 3p21. The deduced amino acid sequence of this novel receptor, designated CCR5, is most similar to CCR2B, sharing 71% identical residues. Transfected cells expressing the receptor bind RANTES (regulated on activation normal T cell expressed), MIP-1beta, and MIP-1alpha with high affinity and generate inositol phosphates in response to these chemokines. This same combination of chemokines has recently been shown to potently inhibit human immunodeficiency virus replication in human peripheral blood leukocytes (Cocchi, F., DeVico, A. L., Garzino-Demo, A., Arya, S. K., Gallo, R. C., and Lusso, P.(1995) Science 270, 1811-1815). CCR5 is expressed in lymphoid organs such as thymus and spleen, as well as in peripheral blood leukocytes, including macrophages and T cells, and is the first example of a human chemokine receptor that signals in response to MIP-1beta.
8663994	Characterization of multiple phosphorylation sites on the AMPA receptor GluR1 subunit.	We have characterized the phosphorylation of the glutamate receptor subunit GluR1, using biochemical and electrophysiological techniques. GluR1 is phosphorylated on multiple sites that are all located on the C-terminus of the protein. Cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase specifically phosphorylates SER-845 of GluR1 in transfected HEK cells and in neurons in culture. Phosphorylation of this residue results in a 40% potentiation of the peak current through GluR1 homomeric channels. In addition, protein kinase C specifically phosphorylates Ser-831 of GluR1 in HEK-293 cells and in cultured neurons. These results are consistent with the recently proposed transmembrane topology models of glutamate receptors, in which the C-terminus is intracellular. In addition, the modulation of GluR1 by PKA phosphorylation of Ser-845 suggests that phosphorylation of this residue may underlie the PKA-induced potentiation of AMPA receptors in neurons.
8665852	Activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase by interaction with Ras and by point mutation.	We have reported previously that Ras interacts with the catalytic subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) in a GTP-dependent manner. The affinity of the interaction of Ras-GTP with p85alpha/p110alpha is shown here to be approximately 150 nM. The site of interaction on the p110alpha and beta isoforms of PI 3-kinase lies between amino acid residues 133 and 314. A point mutation in this region, K227E, blocks the GTP-dependent interaction of PI 3-kinase p110alpha with Ras in vitro and the ability of Ras to activate PI 3-kinase in intact cells. In addition, this mutation elevates the basal activity of PI 3-kinase in intact cells, suggesting a direct influence of the Ras binding site on the catalytic activity of PI 3-kinase. Using an in vitro reconstitution assay, it is shown that the interaction of Ras-GTP, but not Ras-GDP, with PI 3-kinase leads to an increase in its enzymatic activity. This stimulation is synergistic with the effect of tyrosine phosphopeptide binding to p85, particularly at suboptimal peptide concentrations. These data show that PI 3-kinase is regulated by a number of mechanisms, and that Ras contributes to the activation of this lipid kinase synergistically with tyrosine kinases.
8666672	Associations among PH and SH3 domain-containing proteins and Rho-type GTPases in Yeast.	The src homology region 3 (SH3) domain-bearing protein Bem1p and the Rho-type GTPase Cdc42p are important for bud emergence in Saccharomyces cervisiae. Here, we present evidence that through its second SH3 domain, Bem1p binds to the structurally and functionally similar proteins Boi1p and Boi2p, each of which contain an SH3 and pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. Deletion of BOI1 and BO12 together leads to impaired morphogenesis and poor ability. A PH domain-bearing segment of Boi1p that lacks the Bem1p-binding site is necessary and sufficient for function. This segment of Boi1p displays a two-hybrid interaction with Cdc42p, suggesting that Boi1p either binds directly to or is part of a larger complex that contains Cdc42p. Consistent with these possibilities, overexpression of Boi1p inhibits bud emergence, but this inhibition is counteracted by cooverexpression of Cdc42p. Increased expression of the Rho-type GTPase Rho3p, which is implicated in bud growth defects of boil boi2 mutants, suggesting that Boi1p and Boi2p may also play roles in the activation or function of Rho3p. These findings provide an example of a tight coupling in function between PH domain-bearing proteins and both Rho-type GTPases and SH3 domain-containing proteins, and they raise the possibility that Boi1p and Boi2 play a role in linking the actions of Cdc42p and Rho3p.
8668348	Identification of signalling proteins interacting with B-Raf in the yeast two-hybrid system.	Recent studies suggested the existence of Ras/B-Raf/ MEK-1 complexes and a critical role for B-Raf in regulating the MAP kinase/ERKs signalling pathway. We report, here, that both Ras and MEK-1 proteins interact physically with B-Raf proteins in the yeast two-hybrid system. In addition, by screening a mouse brain cDNA library, we isolated additional B-Raf interacting proteins. These include three members of the 14-3-3 proteins family (eta, theta and zeta) and the MEK-2 protein. We also show that c-Raf-1, previously reported to interact with beta and zeta 14-3-3 proteins, also interacts with eta and theta 14-3-3 proteins in the two-hybrid system. By using different portions of the B-Raf protein, we mapped the regions of the protein involved in these interactions. Specifically, we have characterized B-Raf specific sequences required for an efficient interaction with MEK proteins. We show that, consequently, B-Raf interacts with MEK-1 and MEK-2 with a better affinity than does c-Raf-1, thus strengthening the notion that B-Raf is a stronger MEK activator than c-Raf-l. Our results also suggest that a MEK specific sequence, not present in MAP kinase kinases which are not activated by members of the Raf family, is required for the interaction with Raf proteins.
8670801	IQGAP1, a calmodulin-binding protein with a rasGAP-related domain, is a potential effector for cdc42Hs.	Proteins that associate with the GTP-bound forms of the Ras superfamily of proteins are potential effector targets for these molecular switches. A 195 kDa protein was purified from cell lysates by affinity chromatography on immobilized cdc42Hs-GTP and a corresponding cDNA was isolated. Sequence analysis revealed localized identities to calponin, the WW domain, unconventional myosins and to the rasGAP-related domain (GRD) contained in IRA, NF-1, SAR1 and rasGAP. p195 was found to be identical to IQGAP1, a protein previously reported to bind ras. Purified recombinant p195/IQGAP1 bound to and inhibited the GTPase activity of cdc42Hs and rac whereas no interaction with ras was detected. The C-terminal half of IQGAP1 containing the GRD bound to cdc42 and rac in a GRD-dependent fashion, but a smaller fragment containing only the GRD did not. Cdc42 was also co-immunoprecipitated from cell lysates with antibody specific to p195/IQGAP1. Calmodulin also co-immunoprecipitated with p195/IQGAP1 and was found to associate with fragments containing the IQ domain. Expression of a cDNA fragment encoding the GRD inhibited the CDC24/CDC42 pathway in yeast, but no effect on ras was observed. In mammalian cells, both endogenous and ectopically expressed p195/IQGAP1 were localized to lamellipodia and ruffling cell membranes, where co-localization with actin was apparent. These results suggest that IQGAP1 is an effector target for cdc42Hs and may mediate the effects of this GTPase on cell morphology.
8670859	A novel nuclear structure containing the survival of motor neurons protein.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a common, often fatal, autosomal recessive disease leading to progressive muscle wasting and paralysis as a result of degeneration of anterior horn cells of the spinal cord. A gene termed survival of motor neurons (SMN), at 5q13, has been identified as the determining gene of SMA (Lefebvre et al., 1995). The SMN gene is deleted in > 98% of SMA patients, but the function of the SMN protein is unknown. In searching for hnRNP-interacting proteins we found that SMN interacts with the RGG box region of hnRNP U, with itself, with fibrillarin and with several novel proteins. We have produced monoclonal antibodies to the SMN protein, and we report here on its striking cellular localization pattern. Immunolocalization studies using SMN monoclonal antibodies show several intense dots in HeLa cell nuclei. These structures are similar in number (2-6) and size (0.1-1.0 micron) to coiled bodies, and frequently are found near or associated with coiled bodies. We term these prominent nuclear structures gems, for Gemini of coiled bodies.
8676499	Prion protein PrPc interacts with molecular chaperones of the Hsp60 family.	Prions mediate the pathogenesis of certain neurodegenerative diseases, including bovine spongiform encephalopathy in cattle and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans. The prion particle consists mainly, if not entirely, of PrPSc, a posttranslationally modified isoform of the cellular host-encoded prion protein (PrPc). It has been suggested that additional cellular factors might be involved in the physiological function of PrPc and in the propagation of PrPSc. Here we employ a Saccharomyces cerevisiae two-hybrid screen to search for proteins which interact specifically with the Syrian golden hamster prion protein. Screening of a HeLa cDNA library identified heat shock protein 60 (Hsp60), a cellular chaperone as a major interactor for PrPc. The specificity of the interaction was confirmed in vitro for the recombinant proteins PrPc23-231 and rPrP27-30 fused to glutathione S-transferase with recombinant human Hsp60 as well as the bacterial GroEL. The interaction site for recombinant Hsp60 and GroEL proteins was mapped between amino acids 180 and 210 of the prion protein by screening with a set of recombinant PrPc fragments. The binding of Hsp60 and GroEL occurs within a region which contains parts of the putative alpha-helical domains H3 and H4 of the prion protein.
8683580	The crystal structures of trout Hb I in the deoxy and carbonmonoxy forms.	We have determined the X-ray crystallographic structure of trout Hb I in both the deoxy and carbonmonoxy forms to resolution limits of 2.3 angstroms and 2.5 angstroms, respectively. The overall fold of the molecule is highly similar to that of human HbA despite the low level of sequence identity between these proteins. Trout Hb I is unusual in displaying almost no pH dependence of oxygen binding affinity, and (at most) very weak interactions with heterotropic effector ligands such as organic phosphates. Comparison of the two quaternary states of the protein indicates how such effects are minimised and how the low-affinity T state of the protein is stabilised in the absence of heterotropic interactions.
8692885	The tumor necrosis factor-inducible zinc finger protein A20 interacts with TRAF1/TRAF2 and inhibits NF-kappaB activation.	TRAF1 and TRAF2 form an oligomeric complex that associates with the cytoplasmic domains of various members of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily. TRAF2 action is required for activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB triggered by TNF and the CD40 ligand. Here we show that TRAF1 and TRAF2 interact with A20, a zinc finger protein, whose expression is induced by agents that activate NF-kappaB. Mutational analysis revealed that the N-terminal half of A20 interacts with the conserved C-terminal TRAF domain of TRAF1 and TRAF2. In cotransfection experiments, A20 blocked TRAF2-mediated NF-kappaB activation. A20 also inhibited TNF and IL-1-induced NF-kappaB activation, suggesting that it may inhibit NF-kappaB activation signaled by diverse stimuli. The ability of A20 to block NF-kappaB activation was mapped to its C-terminal zinc finger domain. Thus, A20 is composed of two functionally distinct domains, an N-terminal TRAF binding domain that recruits A20 to the TRAF2-TRAF1 complex and a C-terminal domain that mediates inhibition of NF-kappaB activation. Our findings suggest a possible molecular mechanism that could explain A20's ability to negatively regulate its own TNF-inducible expression.
8692945	Bcl-2 interacting protein, BAG-1, binds to and activates the kinase Raf-1.	The Bcl-2 protein blocks programmed cell death (apoptosis) through an unknown mechanism. Previously we identified a Bcl-2 interacting protein BAG-1 that enhances the anti-apoptotic effects of Bcl-2. Like BAG-1, the serine/threonine protein kinase Raf-1 also can functionally cooperate with Bcl-2 in suppressing apoptosis. Here we show that Raf-1 and BAG-1 specifically interact in vitro and in yeast two-hybrid assays. Raf-1 and BAG-1 can also be coimmunoprecipitated from mammalian cells and from insect cells infected with recombinant baculoviruses encoding these proteins. Furthermore, bacterially-produced BAG-1 protein can increase the kinase activity of Raf-1 in vitro. BAG-1 also activates this mammalian kinase in yeast. These observations suggest that the Bcl-2 binding protein BAG-1 joins Ras and 14-3-3 proteins as potential activators of the kinase Raf-1.
8700527	RN-tre specifically binds to the SH3 domain of eps8 with high affinity and confers growth advantage to NIH3T3 upon carboxy-terminal truncation.	We isolated a cDNA encoding a protein, RN-tre, which shows homology to the N-terminus of the tre oncogene product and has SH3-binding ability as well as an evolutionarily conserved domain, termed TrH, with protein-binding ability in vitro. In the present study, we identify the product of the RN-tre gene as a 97-100 kDa protein. We demonstrate stable association in vivo and in vitro between RN-tre and eps8, mediated by the SH3 domain of the latter. In vitro, RN-tre displayed remarkable preference for binding to the eps8-SH3, as compared to eight other SH3s. The Kd for the in vitro interaction between RN-tre and eps8-SH3 was between 10(-8) and 10(-7) M. A role for RN-tre in cell proliferation was suggested by the finding that a C-terminal truncated mutant was able to confer proliferative advantage and reduced serum-requirement to NIH3T3 fibroblasts. Finally, comparison of the structure and biological activities of RN-tre and of the tre oncogene product, provided insight into the mechanism of oncogenic activation of tre.
8702639	Fibrillin-1 and fibulin-2 interact and are colocalized in some tissues.	Microfibrils 10-12 nm in diameter are found in elastic and non-elastic tissues with fibrillin as a major component. Little is known about the supramolecular structure of these microfibrils and the protein interactions it is based on. To identify protein binding ligands of fibrillin-1, we tested binding of recombinant fibrillin-1 peptides to different extracellular matrix proteins in solid phase assays. Among the proteins tested, only fibulin-2 showed significant binding to rF11, the N-terminal half of fibrillin-1, in a calcium-dependent manner. Surface plasmon resonance demonstrated high affinity binding with a Kd = 56 nM. With overlapping recombinant fibrillin-1 peptides, the binding site for fibulin-2 was narrowed down to the N terminus of fibrillin-1 (amino acid positions 45-450). Immunofluorescence in tissues demonstrated colocalization of fibrillin and fibulin-2 in skin, perichondrium, elastic intima of blood vessels, and kidney glomerulus. Fibulin-2 was not present in ocular ciliary zonules, tendon, and the connective tissue around kidney tubules and lung alveoli, which all contain fibrillin. Immunogold labeling of fibulin-2 on microfibrils in skin was found preferentially at the interface between microfibrils and the amorphous elastin core, suggesting that in vivo the interaction between fibrillin-1 and fibulin-2 is regulated by cellular expression and deposition as well as by protein-protein interactions.
8702708	Anatomy of TRAF2. Distinct domains for nuclear factor-kappaB activation and association with tumor necrosis factor signaling proteins.	The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor (TRAF) family of proteins interact with and transduce signals for members of the TNF receptor superfamily. TRAF1, TRAF2, and TRAF3 share a conserved C-terminal TRAF domain. TRAF2 plays a key role in transducing signals for activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). We have performed extensive mutational analysis on TRAF2, examining the requirements for NF-kappaB activation, self-association, and interaction with other molecules involved in TNF signaling. Examination of point mutants and TRAF2-TRAF3 chimeric proteins indicates that the N-terminal RING finger and two adjacent zinc fingers of TRAF2 are required for NF-kappaB activation. The two distinct TRAF-N and TRAF-C subdomains of the TRAF domain appear to independently mediate self-association and interaction with TRAF1. Interaction of TRAF2 with TNF-R2 and TRADD requires sequences at the C terminus of the TRAF-C domain, whereas interaction with the protein kinase receptor-interacting protein V(RIP) occurs via sequences at the N terminus of the TRAF-C domain. Thus, distinct domains of TRAF2 are involved in recruitment and signaling functions.
8702753	p62, a phosphotyrosine-independent ligand of the SH2 domain of p56lck, belongs to a new class of ubiquitin-binding proteins.	p62 is a novel cellular protein which was initially identified as a phosphotyrosine-independent ligand of the SH2 domain of p56(lck). In the yeast two-hybrid system, p62 specifically interacted with ubiquitin in vivo. Furthermore, p62 bound to ubiquitin-conjugated Sepharose beads in vitro and was efficiently competed by soluble ubiquitin. The interaction was independent of ATP hydrolysis, and its dissociation did not require a reducing agent. Thus, p62 binds to ubiquitin noncovalently. Further analysis showed that the C-terminal 80 amino acids of p62 were indispensable for its interaction with ubiquitin. However, p62 has homology neither with ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolases nor with the S5a subunit of the 26 S proteasome complex, the only proteins known to bind to ubiquitin noncovalently. These results suggest that p62 belongs to a new class of ubiquitin-binding proteins and that p62 affects signal transduction at least partly through ubiquitination-mediated protein degradation.
8702968	Identification of a putative effector for Cdc42Hs with high sequence similarity to the RasGAP-related protein IQGAP1 and a Cdc42Hs binding partner with similarity to IQGAP2.	Cdc42 is a Ras-related GTP-binding protein that has been implicated in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton and cell morphology. In this study, we have identified a protein with a molecular mass approximately 180 kDa from rabbit liver cytosol (designated p180), which binds preferentially to the GTP- and guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio)triphosphate-bound forms of Cdc42. Binding of p180 to GTP-bound Cdc42 maintains it in the GTP-bound state. Another cytosolic protein, with an apparent molecular mass of 175 kDa (p175), was also found to interact with Cdc42, but this association showed less dependence on guanine nucleotides. Both p180 and p175 were capable of binding to Rac1 but not to RhoA or Ha-Ras. The limit functional domain of the Cdc42-GAP protein did not compete with p180 or p175 for binding to Cdc42. However, the Cdc42-binding domain from mPAK-3, a member of the PAK (p21 activated kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases, competed with both proteins. The binding of p180 or p175 was inhibited by mutations of the putative effector loop of Cdc42. p180 and p175 also bound less effectively to a Cdc42/Ras chimera in which loop 8 from Ras was substituted for the predicted loop 8 in Cdc42 that includes a 13-amino acid insert present in all Rho family members but absent in Ras. Microsequencing of a p180 peptide revealed 92% identity with the human IQGAP1 protein, while two peptides derived from p175 were 89 and 100% identical to human IQGAP2. These findings identify IQGAP1 and IQGAP2 as a new class of target/effectors that utilize both regions of the switch I domain and an insert region distinct to Rho proteins for binding to Cdc42.
8703001	The 1.5-A resolution crystal structure of bacterial luciferase in low salt conditions.	Bacterial luciferase is a flavin monooxygenase that catalyzes the oxidation of a long-chain aldehyde and releases energy in the form of visible light. A new crystal form of luciferase cloned from Vibrio harveyi has been grown under low-salt concentrations, which diffract x-rays beyond 1.5-A resolution. The x-ray structure of bacterial luciferase has been refined to a conventional R-factor of 18.2% for all recorded synchrotron data between 30.0 and 1.50-A resolution. Bacterial luciferase is an alpha-beta heterodimer, and the individual subunits fold into a single domain (beta/alpha)8 barrel. The high resolution structure reveals a non-prolyl cis peptide bond that forms between Ala74 and Ala75 in the alpha subunit near the putative active site. This cis peptide bond may have functional significance for creating a cavity at the active site. Bacterial luciferase employs reduced flavin as a substrate rather than a cofactor. The structure presented was determined in the absence of substrates. A comparison of the structural similarities between luciferase and a nonfluorescent flavoprotein, which is expressed in the lux operon of one genus of bioluminescent bacteria, suggests that the two proteins originated from a common ancestor. However, the flavin binding sites of the nonfluorescent protein are likely not representative of the flavin binding site on luciferase. The structure presented here will furnish a detailed molecular model for all bacterial luciferases.
8747462	Crystal structure of an acetylcholinesterase-fasciculin complex: interaction of a three-fingered toxin from snake venom with its target.	BACKGROUND: Fasciculin (FAS), a 61-residue polypeptide purified from mamba venom, is a three-fingered toxin which is a powerful reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Solution of the three-dimensional structure of the AChE/FAS complex would provide the first structure of a three-fingered toxin complexed with its target. RESULTS: The structure of a complex between Torpedo californica AChE and fasciculin-II (FAS-II), from the venom of the green mamba (Dendroaspis angusticeps) was solved by molecular replacement techniques, and refined at 3.0 A resolution to an R-factor of 0.231. The structure reveals a stoichiometric complex with one FAS molecule bound to each AChE subunit. The AChE and FAS conformations in the complex are very similar to those in their isolated structures. FAS is bound at the 'peripheral' anionic site of AChE, sealing the narrow gorge leading to the active site, with the dipole moments of the two molecules roughly aligned. The high affinity of FAS for AChE is due to a remarkable surface complementarity, involving a large contact area (approximately 2000 A2) and many residues either unique to FAS or rare in other three-fingered toxins. The first loop, or finger, of FAS reaches down the outer surface of the thin aspect of the gorge. The second loop inserts into the gorge, with an unusual stacking interaction between Met33 in FAS and Trp279 in AChE. The third loop points away from the gorge, but the C-terminal residue makes contact with the enzyme. CONCLUSIONS: Two conserved aromatic residues in the AChE peripheral anionic site make important contacts with FAS. The absence of these residues from chicken and insect AChEs and from butyrylcholinesterase explains the very large reduction in the affinity of these enzymes for FAS. Several basic residues in FAS make important contacts with AChE. The complementarity between FAS and AChE is unusual, inasmuch as it involves a number of charged residues, but lacks any intermolecular salt linkages.
8752322	Interaction between FtsZ and inhibitors of cell division.	The interaction between inhibitors of cell division and FtsZ were assessed by using the yeast two-hybrid system. An interaction was observed between FtsZ and SulA, a component of the SOS response, and the interacting regions were mapped to their conserved domains. This interaction was reduced by mutations in sulA and by most mutations in ftsZ that make cell refractory to sulA. No interaction was detected between FtsZ and MinCD, an inhibitory component of the site selection system. However, interactions were observed among various members of the Min system, and MinE was found to reduce the interaction between MinC and MinD. The implications of these findings for cell division are discussed.
8755476	Control of daughter cell fates during asymmetric division: interaction of Numb and Notch.	During development of the Drosophila peripheral nervous system, a sensory organ precursor (SOP) cell undergoes rounds of asymmetric divisions to generate four distinct cells of a sensory organ. Numb, a membrane-associated protein, is asymmetrically segregated into one daughter cell during SOP division and acts as an inherited determinant of cell fate. Here, we show that Notch, a transmembrane receptor mediated cell-cell communication, functions as a binary switch in cell fate specification during asymmetric divisions of the SOP and its daughter cells in embryogenesis. Moreover, numb negatively regulates Notch, probably through direct protein-protein interaction that requires the phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) domain of Numb and either the RAM23 region or the very C-terminal end of Notch. Notch then positively regulates a transcription factor encoded by tramtrack (ttk). This leads to Ttk expression in the daughter cell that does not inherit Numb. Thus, the inherited determinant Numb bestows a bias in the machinery for cell-cell communication to allow the specification of distinct daughter cell fates.
8756646	The Ras GTPase-activating-protein-related human protein IQGAP2 harbors a potential actin binding domain and interacts with calmodulin and Rho family GTPases.	We previously described IQGAP1 as a human protein related to a putative Ras GTPase-activating protein (RasGAP) from the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Here we report the identification of a liver-specific human protein that is 62% identical to IQGAP1. Like IQGAP1, the novel IQGAP2 protein harbors an N-terminal calponin homology motif which functions as an F-actin binding domain in members of the spectrin, filamin, and fimbrin families. Both IQGAPs also harbor several copies of a novel 50- to 55-amino-acid repeat, a single WW domain, and four IQ motifs and have 25% sequence identity with almost the entire S. pombe sar1 RasGAP homolog. As predicted by the presence of IQ motifs, IQGAP2 binds calmodulin. However, neither full-length nor truncated IQGAP2 stimulated the GTPase activity of Ras or its close relatives. Instead, IQGAP2 binds Cdc42 and Racl but not RhoA. This interaction involves the C-terminal half of IQGAP2 and appears to be independent of the nucleotide binding status of the GTPases. Although IQGAP2 shows no GAP activity towards Cdc42 and Rac1, the protein did inhibit both the intrinsic and RhoGAP-stimulated GTP hydrolysis rates of Cdc42 and Rac1, suggesting an alternative mechanism via which IQGAPs might modulate signaling by these GTPases. Since IQGAPs harbor a potential actin binding domain, they could play roles in the Cdc42 and Rac1 controlled generation of specific actin structures.
8756702	Yeast geranylgeranyltransferase type-II: steady state kinetic studies of the recombinant enzyme.	Rab proteins in mammalian cells, or Ypt1p and Sec4p in yeast, regulate vesicular traffic. Prenylation of these small GTP-binding proteins is required for membrane attachment and subsequent biological activity. Yeast protein geranylgeranyltransferase type-II (PGGTase-II) catalyzes the prenylation of Ypt1p in the presence of an escort protein, Msi4p. The genes encoding the alpha-(BET4) and beta-(BET2) subunits of PGGTase-II were translationally coupled by overlapping the BET4-BET2 stop/start codons and by adding a ribosome-binding site near the 3'-end of BET4 that fused an -EEF C-terminal alpha-tubulin epitope to Bet4p. Active recombinant heterodimer was purified by chromatography on DE52 and anti-alpha-tubulin columns. Recombinant Msi4p with an N-terminal polyhistidine leader was purified on a Ni(2+)-Sepharose column, followed by gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography. An escort protein, Msi4p, was necessary for geranylgeranylation of Ypt1p by yeast PGGTase-II. Michaelis constants for GGPP and Ypt1p were 1.6 and 1.1 microM, respectively; Vmax = 1.7 nmol min-1 mg-1 for yeast PGGTase-II. Typical Michaelis-Menten behavior was also seen for the enzyme for varied concentrations of Msi4p, with a maximal catalytic activity seen for a 10-fold excess of escort protein over enzyme. In contrast to previous reports, PGGTase-II requires both Zn2+ and Mg2+ for maximal activity, although Zn2+ becomes inhibitory at concentrations above approximately 10 microM. Prenylated Ypt1p obtained after incubation of Ypt1p with PGGTase-II, Msi4p, and geranylgeranyl diphosphate was digested with trypsin. The C-terminal peptide fragment from modified Ypt1p was purified by HPLC and analyzed by electrospray mass spectrometry. The mass of the fragment is consistent with the 12-mer C-terminal amino acid fragment predicted from proteolysis by trypsin with both cysteine residues modified by geranylgeranyl moieties.
8764026	Interaction between hepatitis C virus core protein and E1 envelope protein.	Hepatitis C virus has three structural genes named C, E1, and E2. The C gene encodes the core (capsid) protein and the E1 and E2 genes encode the envelope proteins. In an immunoprecipitation experiment, the E1 protein was found to be precipitated by an anti-core antibody in the presence but not in the absence of the core protein, indicating that the E1 protein can interact with the core protein. This interaction is independent of whether the E1 and the C genes are linked in cis or separated in different DNA constructs for expression. The interaction between the core and the E1 proteins is confirmed by the observation that a hybrid protein derived from the core protein and the tissue plasminogen activator is localized in the nucleus in the absence of the E1 protein and in the perinuclear region in the presence of the E1 protein. Deletion-mapping studies indicate that the carboxy-terminal sequences of both the core and the E1 proteins are important for their interaction. Since little E1 sequence is exposed on the cytosolic side of the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum, the interaction between the core and the E1 proteins most likely takes place in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. The E2 protein could not be coprecipitated with the core protein by the anti-core antibody in a similar assay and likely does not interact with the core protein. The implications of these findings on the morphogenesis of the hepatitis C virus virion are discussed.
8786425	CASK: a novel dlg/PSD95 homolog with an N-terminal calmodulin-dependent protein kinase domain identified by interaction with neurexins.	Neurexins are neuronal cell surface proteins with hundreds of isoforms. In yeast two-hybrid screens for intracellular molecules interacting with different neurexins, we identified a single interacting protein called CASK. CASK is composed of an N-terminal Ca2+, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase sequence and a C-terminal region that is similar to the intercellular junction proteins dlg-A, PSD95/SAP90, SAP97, Z01, and Z02 and that contains DHR-, SH3-, and guanylate kinase domains. CASK is enriched in brain in synaptic plasma membranes but is also detectable at low levels in all tissues tested. The cytoplasmic domains of all three neurexins bind CASK in a salt-labile interaction. In neurexin I, this interaction is dependent on the C-terminal three residues. Thus, CASK is a membrane-associated protein that combines domains found in Ca2+ - activated protein kinases and in proteins specific for intercellular junctions, suggesting that it may be a signaling molecule operating at the plasma membrane, possibly in conjunction with neurexins.
8794736	Crystal structure of an elastase-specific inhibitor elafin complexed with porcine pancreatic elastase determined at 1.9 A resolution.	The crystal structure of a stoichiometric complex between an elastase-specific inhibitor elafin and porcine pancreatic elastase (PPE) has been determined and refined to a crystallographic R-factor of 19.7% at 1.9 A resolution. The polypeptide chain of elafin has a planar spiral shape with an exposed external part and an internal core part which resembles both the crystal structure of human seminal plasma inhibitor (HUSI-1) [Grutter, M. G., Fendrich, G., Huber, R., & Bode, W. (1988) EMBO J. 7, 345-351] and the solution structure of Na+,K(+)-ATPase inhibitor (SPAI-1) revealed by NMR analysis [Kozaki, T., Kawakami, Y., Tachibana, S., Hatanaka, H., & Inagaki, F. (1994) Pept. Chem., 405-408]. The external region containing the primary binding loop is interconnected by four disulfide bonds to the internal part composed of a beta-sheet and a hairpin loop. The scissile peptide bond Ala24i(P1)-Met25i(P1') in the primary binding site is intact, and its carbonyl carbon is in van der Waals contact with O gamma of the active site Ser195 of PPE. The seven residues of Leu20i(P5)-Leu26i(P2') of the primary binding loop and the three residues of Ser48i, Cys49i, and Ala52i of the adjacent hairpin loop are in contact with PPE by hydrogen bonds and/or van der Waals interactions in a manner similar to that observed for other serine protease-inhibitor complexes. Electron densities of the N-terminal residues Ala1i-Ser10i which are not responsible for the elastase inhibitory activity were not visible, probably due to disordered conformation. The guanido group (N eta 1, N eta 2) of Arg61 in the complex interacts with S delta of Met25i(P1') by possible hydrogen bonds between N and S atoms, accompanying a large positional shift of the side chain of Arg61-(S1') between the complexed and free forms of PPE. The primary binding site is stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the guanido group (N eta 1, N eta 2) of Arg22i(P3) and the carbonyl group of Met25i(P1') across the scissile bond, as well as by a hydrogen bond between the amino group of Cys23i(P2) and the carbonyl group of Ser48i in the internal core. This intramolecular hydrogen bond network and the network of four disulfide bonds might play a significant role in stabilizing the conformation of the binding site for expressing the potent specific inhibitory activity.
8797804	A20, an inhibitor of cell death, self-associates by its zinc finger domain.	A20 is a primary response gene which is induced after monocyte adherence or cytokine stimulation of a variety of cells. The A20 protein belongs to a novel class of Cys2/Cys2 zinc finger proteins, and has been characterized as an inhibitor of both apoptotic and necrotic cell death. In order to clarify its molecular mechanism of action, we used the yeast-based two-hybrid system to screen for A20-associated proteins. Here we report that A20 is able to self-associate, and demonstrate that the latter interaction is mediated by its zinc finger domain.
8797820	I-mf, a novel myogenic repressor, interacts with members of the MyoD family.	During embryogenesis, cells from the ventral and dorsal parts of the somites give rise to sclerotome and dermomyotome, respectively. Dermomyotome contains skeletal muscle precursors that are determined by the MyoD family of myogenic factors. We have isolated a novel myogenic repressor, I-mf (Inhibitor of MyoD family), which is highly expressed in the sclerotome. In contrast, MyoD family members are concentrated in the dermomyotome. We demonstrate that I-mf inhibits the transactivation activity of the MyoD family and represses myogenesis. I-mf associates with MyoD family members and retains them in the cytoplasm by masking their nuclear localization signals. I-mf can also interfere with the DNA binding activity of MyoD family members. We postulate that I-mf plays an important role in the patterning of the somite early in development.
8798539	Identification of IQGAP as a putative target for the small GTPases, Cdc42 and Rac1.	Cdc42 and Rac1 have been implicated in the regulation of various cell functions such as cell morphology, polarity, and cell proliferation. We have partially purified a Cdc42- and Rac1-associated protein with molecular mass of about 170 kDa (p170) from bovine brain cytosol. This protein interacted with guanosine 5'-(3-O-thio)triphosphate (GTPgammaS).glutathione S-transferase (GST)-Cdc42 and GTPgammaS++.GST-Rac1 but not with the GDP.GST-Cdc42, GDP.GST-Rac1, or GTPgammaS.GST-RhoA). We identified p170 as an IQGAP, which is originally identified as a putative Ras GTPase-activating protein. Recombinant IQGAP specifically interacted with GTPgammaS.Cdc42 and GTPgammaS.Rac1. The C-terminal fragment of IQGAP was responsible for their interactions. IQGAP was specifically immunoprecipitated with dominant-active Cdc42(Val12) or Rac1(Val12) from the COS7 cells expressing Cdc42(Val12) or Rac1(Val12), respectively. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that IQGAP was accumulated at insulin- or Rac1-induced membrane ruffling areas. This accumulation of IQGAP was blocked by the microinjection of the dominant-negative Rac1(Asn17) or Cdc42(Asn17). Moreover, IQGAP was accumulated at the cell-cell junction in MDCK cells, where alpha-catenin and ZO-1 were localized. These results suggest that IQGAP is a novel target molecule for Cdc42 and Rac1.
8798570	Ligand activation of ELK receptor tyrosine kinase promotes its association with Grb10 and Grb2 in vascular endothelial cells.	ELK is a member of the Eph-related tyrosine kinase family that includes receptors signaling axonal guidance, neuronal bundling, and angiogenesis. We recently identified ELK expression in human renal microvascular endothelial cells and sought to identify intracellular proteins through which it signals responses. The cytoplasmic domain of ELK was used as "bait" in a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify interactive proteins expressed from a randomly primed embryonic murine library (E9.5-10.5). Among interactive products of 76 cDNAs characterized, 10 nonidentical, overlapping clones encoded the SH2 domain of the recently reported Grb10 adapter protein, and an additional 3 encoded Grb2. A self-phosphorylated recombinant, baculovirus-expressed GST-ELKcy fusion protein bound Grb10 and Grb2 from human renal microvascular endothelial cell extracts, while the unphosphorylated fusion form did not. Site-directed mutation identified Tyr-929 as a putative phosphorylation site required for Grb10, but not Grb2, interaction in yeast and recombinant protein assays. The ELK ligand, LERK-2/Fc, stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of ELK, and recruitment of Grb10 and Grb2 to endothelial ELK receptors recovered by wheat germ agglutinin lectin and immunoprecipitation. These findings define ligand-activated interaction between ELK and the SH2 domains of Grb2 and the newly identified Grb10 protein that shares homology with a Caenorhabditis elegans gene product implicated in neural cell migration.
8798684	The Ca2+-dependent lipid binding domain of P120GAP mediates protein-protein interactions with Ca2+-dependent membrane-binding proteins. Evidence for a direct interaction between annexin VI and P120GAP.	The CaLB domain is a 43-amino acid sequence motif found in a number of functionally diverse signaling proteins including three Ras-specific GTPase activating proteins (GAPs). In the Ras GTPase activating protein, P120(GAP), this domain has the ability to confer membrane association in response to intracellular Ca2+ elevation. Here we have isolated three proteins, p55, p70, and p120, which interact with the P120(GAP) CaLB domain in vitro. We identify p70 as the Ca2+-dependent phospholipid-binding protein annexin VI. Using co-immunoprecipitation studies, we have shown that the interaction between P120(GAP) and annexin VI is also detectable in rat fibroblasts, suggesting that this interaction may have a physiological role in vivo. Thus, the CaLB domain in P120(GAP) appears to have the ability to direct specific protein-protein interactions with Ca2+-dependent membrane-associated proteins. In addition, annexin VI is known to have tumor suppressor activity. Therefore, it is possible that the interaction of annexin VI with P120(GAP) may be important in the subsequent modulation of p21(ras) activity.
8805223	Two GTPases, Cdc42 and Rac, bind directly to a protein implicated in the immunodeficiency disorder Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	BACKGROUND: Members of the Rho family of small GTPases play an essential role in controlling the motile behaviour of animal cells. Specifically, Cdc42 and Rac have been shown to induce the formation of filopodia and lamellipodia, respectively, at the cell periphery of Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts. In addition, both GTPases are required for progression through G1 phase of the cell cycle, possibly by regulating the activity of the Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signalling pathway. In order to examine more closely the mechanisms underlying the diverse functions of Rho GTPases in mammalian cells, we searched for downstream targets of these proteins. RESULTS: A yeast two-hybrid screen for proteins interacting with the human Cdc42 GTPase identified WASP, a protein implicated in the immunodeficiency disorder Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS). Recombinant WASP, expressed in Escherichia coli, also bound to Cdc42 and weakly to Rac, but not at all to Rho. The Cdc42/Rac-binding domain was identified in a region between amino acids 201-321 of WASP, and binding was dependent on Cdc42 and Rac being in the GTP-bound conformation. Furthermore, WASP did not catalyze GTPase activation or nucleotide exchange activity on Cdc42. CONCLUSIONS: Positional cloning has implicated WASP in causing WAS, and the protein is defective in patients suffering from the disease. WASP is expressed exclusively in cells of hematopoietic lineage, and lymphocytes from WAS patients have a distorted cell-surface and exhibit reduced proliferative capacity. WASP has recently been found to bind to the Src-homology 3 (SH3) domain of the adapter protein Nck. This observation, and the results presented here, suggest that WAS is the result of defects in signal transduction pathways regulated by Cdc42/Rac and Nck.
8806520	Simian virus 40 large T antigen binds to topoisomerase I.	Binding of simian virus 40 (SV40) large T antigen to human and calf thymus topoisomerase I (topo I) was readily detected by using modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays and immunoblots. In addition to WT T antigen, binding could also be readily demonstrated with T antigen fragments from the amino-terminal region as well as with fragments missing this region, but much less so with small t antigen or with human p53. Antibody-blocking experiments showed that a monoclonal antibody that binds to the N-terminal region and several antibodies that recognize the central region of T antigen interfere with the binding to topo I. Our data are consistent with the existence of two separate topo I-binding regions in T antigen, one mapping within residues 82 to 246 and an apparently weaker one present after residue 246. By comparing the binding of T antigen to topo I with that of T antigen to DNA polymerase alpha or RPA, a single-stranded DNA-binding protein, it was determined that the T antigen-topo I interaction is much stronger and that the binding sites for topo I and DNA polymerase overlap, whereas the one for RPA differs. Several unwinding-defective mutants of T antigen were partially defective in their binding to topo I, suggesting that the binding to topo I is required for unwinding circular DNA. Finally, immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that T antigen can interact with DNA-bound topo I, indicating that such an interaction may take place during SV40 DNA replication.
8810259	Calmodulin binds to and inhibits GTP binding of the ras-like GTPase Kir/Gem.	Recently, a new subfamily of Ras-related GTP-binding proteins consisting of Rad (Ras associated with diabetes), Gem (immediate early gene expressed in mitogen-stimulated T-cells), and Kir (tyrosine kinase-inducible Ras-like) was discovered. The C terminus of these proteins contains an extension of approximately 30 amino acids not present in other members of the Ras family and which exhibits all the hallmarks typical for calmodulin (CaM)-binding domains. A peptide corresponding to the putative CaM-binding domain of the Kir/Gem protein was synthesized, and its affinity for CaM was determined by fluorescence spectrometry. Titration of dansyl-CaM with the Kir/Gem peptide gave an affinity constant of 1 nM. Furthermore, a single point mutation of the peptide, W269G, abolished this high affinity interaction. Gel-shift analysis showed that the complex formation between CaM and the Kir/Gem peptide is strictly calcium-dependent. We also demonstrate with a newly developed [32P]CaM overlay technique that full-length Kir/Gem and Rad proteins bind CaM in a Ca2+-dependent fashion. The binding of CaM to glutathione S-transferase-Kir and GST-Gem inhibited the binding of GTP to Kir/Gem significantly. These results suggest the existence of a direct link between Ca2+/CaM and growth factor signal transduction pathways at the level of small Ras-like GTPases.
8814229	Prothymosin alpha binds histones in vitro and shows activity in nucleosome assembly assay.	Prothymosin alpha (Pro Talpha) is a polypeptide which appears to be involved in cell proliferation, though its precise function has yet to be identified. Here, we report experiments which show that calf Pro Talpha selectively binds to core histones and histone H1 in vitro. Characterization of these interactions by various procedures (including affinity chromatography on Pro T alpha-Sepharose columns, immunoblotting assay and investigation of the behaviour of mixtures of Pro T alpha and histones in solution) indicated that Pro T alpha has higher affinity for core histones (particularly H3 and H4) than for H1. Similarities between the histone-binding patterns of Pro T alpha and of poly(glutamic acid) suggest that the observed histone-binding capacity resides largely in the acidic central region of Pro T alpha. However, all five histones were also bound by T alpha 1 (a peptide corresponding to the first 28 amino acids of Pro T alpha); histone binding by the N-terminal region of Pro T alpha thus cannot be ruled out. Phosphorylation of Pro T alpha does not appear to affect these interactions. In accordance with the observed capacity for histone binding, Pro T alpha (in conjunction with ATP and some Pro T alpha-binding factor/s in a thymocyte extract) was able to induce in vitro nucleosome assembly. We discuss the possibility that Pro T alpha plays a role in chromatin remodelling.
8816444	A region rich in aspartic acid, arginine, tyrosine, and glycine (DRYG) mediates eukaryotic initiation factor 4B (eIF4B) self-association and interaction with eIF3.	The binding of mRNA to the ribosome is mediated by eukaryotic initiation factors eukaryotic initiation factor 4F (eIF4F), eIF4B, eIF4A, and eIF3, eIF4F binds to the mRNA cap structure and, in combination with eIF4B, is believed to unwind the secondary structure in the 5' untranslated region to facilitate ribosome binding. eIF3 associates with the 40S ribosomal subunit prior to mRNA binding. eIF4B copurifies with eIF3 and eIF4F through several purification steps, suggesting the involvement of a multisubunit complex during translation initiation. To understand the mechanism by which eIF4B promotes 40S ribosome binding to the mRNA, we studied its interactions with partner proteins by using a filter overlay (protein-protein [far Western]) assay and the two-hybrid system. In this report, we show that eIF4B self-associates and also interacts directly with the p170 subunit of eIF3. A region rich in aspartic acid, arginine, tyrosine, and glycine, termed the DRYG domain, is sufficient for self-association of eIF4B, both in vitro and in vivo, and for interaction with the p170 subunit of eIF3. These experiments suggest that eIF4B participates in mRNA-ribosome binding by acting as an intermediary between the mRNA and eIF3, via a direct interaction with the p170 subunit of eIF3.
8816458	Cap-binding protein (eukaryotic initiation factor 4E) and 4E-inactivating protein BP-1 independently regulate cap-dependent translation.	Cap-dependent protein synthesis in animal cells is inhibited by heat shock, serum deprivation, metaphase arrest, and infection with certain viruses such as adenovirus (Ad). At a mechanistic level, translation of capped mRNAs is inhibited by dephosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF-4E) (cap-binding protein) and its physical sequestration with the translation repressor protein BP-1 (PHAS-I). Dephosphorylation of BP-I blocks cap-dependent translation by promoting sequestration of eIF-4E. Here we show that heat shock inhibits translation of capped mRNAs by simultaneously inducing dephosphorylation of eIF-4E and BP-1, suggesting that cells might coordinately regulate translation of capped mRNAs by impairing both the activity and the availability of eIF-4E. Like heat shock, late Ad infection is shown to induce dephosphorylation of eIF-4E. However, in contrast to heat shock, Ad also induces phosphorylation of BP-1 and release of eIF-4E. BP-1 and eIF-4E can therefore act on cap-dependent translation in either a mutually antagonistic or cooperative manner. Three sets of experiments further underscore this point: (i) rapamycin is shown to block phosphorylation of BP-1 without inhibiting dephosphorylation of eIF-4E induced by heat shock or Ad infection, (ii) eIF-4E is efficiently dephosphorylated during heat shock or Ad infection regardless of whether it is in a complex with BP-1, and (iii) BP-1 is associated with eIF-4E in vivo regardless of the state of eIF-4E phosphorylation. These and other studies establish that inhibition of cap-dependent translation does not obligatorily involve sequestration of eIF-4E by BP-1. Rather, translation is independently regulated by the phosphorylation states of eIF-4E and the 4E-binding protein, BP-1. In addition, these results demonstrate that BP-1 and eIF-4E can act either in concert or in opposition to independently regulate cap-dependent translation. We suggest that independent regulation of eIF-4E and BP-1 might finely regulate the efficiency of translation initiation or possibly control cap-dependent translation for fundamentally different purposes.
8824178	An alphabeta T cell receptor structure at 2.5 A and its orientation in the TCR-MHC complex.	The central event in the cellular immune response to invading microorganisms is the specific recognition of foreign peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules by the alphabeta T cell receptor (TCR). The x-ray structure of the complete extracellular fragment of a glycosylated alphabeta TCR was determined at 2.5 angstroms, and its orientation bound to a class I MHC-peptide (pMHC) complex was elucidated from crystals of the TCR-pMHC complex. The TCR resembles an antibody in the variable Valpha and Vbeta domains but deviates in the constant Calpha domain and in the interdomain pairing of Calpha with Cbeta. Four of seven possible asparagine-linked glycosylation sites have ordered carbohydrate moieties, one of which lies in the Calpha-Cbeta interface. The TCR combining site is relatively flat except for a deep hydrophobic cavity between the hypervariable CDR3s (complementarity-determining regions) of the alpha and beta chains. The 2C TCR covers the class I MHC H-2Kb binding groove so that the Valpha CDRs 1 and 2 are positioned over the amino-terminal region of the bound dEV8 peptide, the Vbeta chain CDRs 1 and 2 are over the carboxyl-terminal region of the peptide, and the Valpha and Vbeta CDR3s straddle the peptide between the helices around the central position of the peptide.
8844841	A novel complex of a phenolic derivative with insulin: structural features related to the T-->R transition.	The structure of a symmetric T3R3f insulin hexamer, complexed with 4-hydroxybenzamide, has been determined using X-ray crystallographic techniques. Data were measured from six crystals grown in microgravity to a resolution of 1.4 A and the structure has been refined including the contributions from hydrogen atoms. The crystals are isomorphous with T3R3f complexes of phenolic derivatives as well as with uncomplexed forms. Unlike the structures of complexes with phenol, m-cresol, resorcinol, 4'-hydroxyacetanilide, and methylparaben, which bind one phenolic derivative molecule per R- or Rf-state monomer, two molecules of 4-hydroxybenzamide are bound by each Rf-state monomer. The presence of the second guest molecule results in an extensive hydrogen bonding network, mediated by water molecules, between the T- and Rf-state trimers and adds stability to the formation of the hexamer. The only access to these second sites is through three symmetry-related, narrow channels that originate on the surface of the T-state trimer. Although the conformation of the backbone atoms of the monomers is nearly identical to that of other T3R3f hexamers, significant changes are observed in the conformations of side chains in the vicinity of the second binding site. The side chain of the T-state A11 Cys residue, which forms a disulfide bond to A6 Cys in the same monomer, is observed in two discrete conformations; two discrete conformations are also present for the entire A8 Thr residue in the Rf-state monomer. A procedure is also described for an alternate method of interframe scaling and merging intensity data from an image plate detector.
8847737	Two mitogenic regions of myelin basic protein interact with different receptors to induce Schwann cell proliferation in a cAMP dependent process.	Previous studies have shown that myelin basic protein (MBP) is mitogenic for Schwann cells (SCs) in the presence of elevated intracellular cAMP. Two mitogenic regions of MBP have been identified: one mitogenic region within the first 44 residues of the aminoterminus (1-44) and the other mitogenic region within the terminal 15 residues of the carboxyl end of the molecule (152-167). Unlike the mitogenic effect of a myelin enriched fraction (MEF), the mitogenic effect of MBP was not reduced by the addition of the lysosomal inhibitor, ammonium chloride. These data indicate that MBP causes SC proliferation by direct interaction of MBP with a surface receptor. Using Scatchard analysis of the binding of MBP to SCs, we report that treatment with forskolin does not cause the upregulation of receptors for MBP. Moreover, MBP blocks the cross-linking of 125I-bFGF with two fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptors having apparent molecular weights of 140 kDa and 120 kDa, respectively. Since neither TGF-beta nor PDGF-BB displaced cell surface bound 125I-MBP, we conclude that MBP binds to the FGF receptor rather than other growth factor receptors. Furthermore, only MBP interacted with ganglioside GM1, whereas MBP did not interact with this ganglioside. These results are consistent with the view that ganglioside GM1 mediates the mitogenic effects of MBP, while the FGF receptor mediates the mitogenic effect of MBP. Intracellular cAMP of SCs was transiently increased after the addition of macrophage conditioned medium, suggesting that macrophages may produce factors in vivo which can transiently elevate intracellular cAMP levels, allowing a wave of SC proliferation in response to MBP-related mitogens.
8871564	The mouse poly(C)-binding protein exists in multiple isoforms and interacts with several RNA-binding proteins.	The murine poly(C)-binding protein (mCBP) was previously shown to belong to the group of K-homology (KH) proteins by virtue of its homology to hnRNP-K. We have isolated cDNA-splice variants of mCBP which differ by two variable regions of 93 bp and/or 39 +/- 3 bp respectively. Both variable regions are located between the second and third KH-domain of mCBP. The characterization of a partial genomic clone enabled us to propose a model for the generation of the second variable region by the use of a putative alternative splice signal. The mCBP mRNA is expressed ubiquitously and the protein is found predominantly in the nucleus with the exception of the nucleoli. We have identified five proteins which interact with mCBP in the yeast two hybrid system: mouse y-box protein 1 (msy-1), y-box-binding protein, hnRNP-L, filamin and splicing factor 9G8. The interaction between mCBP and splicing factor 9G8 was confirmed in vivo. These results suggest a function of mCBP in RNA metabolism.
8875926	Structure of the p53 tumor suppressor bound to the ankyrin and SH3 domains of 53BP2.	Mutations in the p53 tumor suppressor are among the most frequently observed genetic alterations in human cancer and map to the 200-amino acid core domain of the protein. The core domain contains the sequence-specific DNA binding activity and the in vitro 53BP2 protein binding activity of p53. The crystal structure of the p53 core domain bound to the 53BP2 protein, which contains an SH3 (Src homology 3) domain and four ankyrin repeats, revealed that (i) the SH3 domain binds the L3 loop of p53 in a manner distinct from that of previously characterized SH3-polyproline peptide complexes, and (ii) an ankyrin repeat, which forms an L-shaped structure consisting of a beta hairpin and two alpha helices, binds the L2 loop of p53. The structure of the complex shows that the 53BP2 binding site on the p53 core domain consists of evolutionarily conserved regions that are frequently mutated in cancer and that it overlaps the site of DNA binding. The six most frequently observed p53 mutations disrupt 53BP2 binding in vitro. The structure provides evidence that the 53BP2-p53 complex forms in vivo and may have a critical role in the p53 pathway of tumor suppression.
8878484	Functional interactions between Stat5 and the glucocorticoid receptor.	Signal transduction pathways enable extracellular signals to activate latent transcription factors in the cytoplasm of cells. Dimerization, nuclear localization and binding to specific DNA sequences result in the induction of gene transcription by these proteins. These events are necessary for the functioning of the JAK/STAT pathway and of the glucocorticoid-receptor pathway. In the former, the protein Stat5, which is a member of a family of signal transducers and activators of transcription, is activated by cytokines, hormones and growth factors. These polypeptide ligands bind at the outside of the cell to specific transmembrane receptors and activate intracellular Janus protein tyrosine kinases (JAKs) to tyrosine-phosphorylate STAT proteins; interaction with the SH2 domain of the dimerization partner then confers the ability to bind to DNA at the STAT-response element and induce transcription. In the glucocorticoid-receptor pathway, the receptor interacts with its steroid hormone ligand in the cytoplasm, undergoes an allosteric change that enables the hormone receptor complex to bind to specific DNA-response elements (glucocorticoid response elements, or GRE) and modulate transcription. Although these pathways appear to be unrelated, we show here that the glucocorticoid receptor can act as a transcriptional co-activator for Stat5 and enhance Stat5-dependent transcription. Stat5 forms a complex with the glucocorticoid receptor which binds to DNA independently of the GRE. This complex formation between Stat5 and the glucocorticoid receptor diminishes the glucocorticoid response of a GRE-containing promoter.
8900110	Genotoxic drugs induce interaction of the c-Abl tyrosine kinase and the tumor suppressor protein p53.	The function of the c-Abl protein tyrosine kinase is unknown. The present studies demonstrate that the antimetabolite 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (ara-C) induces binding of c-Abl and p53. Ara-C treatment of cells that express wild type or a dominant negative, kinase-inactive c-Abl(K-R) was associated with formation of c-Abl-p53 complexes and increased expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor p21. However, down-regulation of Cdk2 by ara-C was found in cells expressing wild type c-Abl and not in cells expressing c-Abl(K-R) or those deficient in p53. Similar findings were obtained following treatment of cells with the alkylating agent methyl methanesulfonate (MMS). Cells that express the c-Abl dominant negative or are null for c-Abl exhibited partial abrogation of Cdk2 down-regulation and G1 arrest in response to MMS exposure. Cells lacking the c-abl gene also responded to ara-C and MMS with increases in p53 levels and induction of p21. These findings indicate that the cellular response to certain genotoxic drugs involves binding of c-Abl to p53 and down-regulation of Cdk2 by a c-Abl kinase/p53-dependent mechanism.
8900141	Cooperative transcriptional activation by the neurogenic basic helix-loop-helix protein MASH1 and members of the myocyte enhancer factor-2 (MEF2) family.	Establishment of skeletal muscle and neural cell types is controlled by families of myogenic and neurogenic basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins, respectively. Myogenic bHLH proteins have been shown to activate skeletal muscle transcription in collaboration with members of the myocyte enhancer factor-2 (MEF2) family of MCM1-agamous-deficiens-serum response factor (MADS)-box transcription factors, which are expressed in differentiated myocytes and neurons. Here, we show that the neurogenic bHLH protein MASH1 interacts with members of the MEF2 family and that this interaction, mediated by the DNA binding and dimerization domains of these factors, results in synergistic activation of transcription through either the MASH1 or the MEF2 DNA binding site. Consistent with their involvement in activation of neuronal gene expression, members of the MEF2 family are expressed in P19 embryonal carcinoma cells that have been induced to form neurons following treatment with retinoic acid. These results suggest that members of the MEF2 family perform similar roles in synergistic activation of transcription in myogenic and neurogenic lineages by serving as cofactors for cell type-specific bHLH proteins.
8917517	Direct physical interaction between DnaG primase and DnaB helicase of Escherichia coli is necessary for optimal synthesis of primer RNA.	The primase DnaG of Escherichia coli requires the participation of the replicative helicase DnaB for optimal synthesis of primer RNA for lagging strand replication. However, previous studies had not determined whether the activation of the primase or its loading on the template was accomplished by a helicase-mediated structural alteration of the single-stranded DNA or by a direct physical interaction between the DnaB and the DnaG proteins. In this paper we present evidence supporting direct interaction between the two proteins. We have mapped the surfaces of interaction on both DnaG and DnaB and show further that mutations that reduce the physical interation also cause a significant reduction in primer synthesis. Thus, the physical interaction reported here appears to be physiologically significant.
8917533	Colocalization of cell division proteins FtsZ and FtsA to cytoskeletal structures in living Escherichia coli cells by using green fluorescent protein.	In the current model for bacterial cell division, FtsZ protein forms a ring that marks the division plane, creating a cytoskeletal framework for the subsequent action of other proteins such as FtsA. This putative protein complex ultimately generates the division septum. Herein we report that FtsZ and FtsA proteins tagged with green fluorescent protein (GEP) colocalize to division-site ring-like structures in living bacterial cells in a visible space between the segregated nucleoids. Cells with higher levels of FtsZ-GFP or with FtsA-GFP plus excess wild-type FtsZ were inhibited for cell division and often exhibited bright fluorescent spiral tubules that spanned the length of the filamentous cells. This suggests that FtsZ may switch from a septation-competent localized ring to an unlocalized spiral under some conditions and that FtsA can bind to FtsZ in both conformations. FtsZ-GFP also formed nonproductive but localized aggregates at a higher concentration that could represent FtsZ nucleation sites. The general domain structure of FtsZ-GFP resembles that of tubulin, since the C terminus of FtsZ is not required for polymerization but may regulate polymerization state. The N-terminal portion of Rhizobium FtsZ polymerized in Escherichia coli and appeared to copolymerize with E. coli FtsZ, suggesting a degree of interspecies functional conservation. Analysis of several deletions of FtsA-GFP suggests that multiple segments of FtsA are important for its localization to the FtsZ ring.
8922396	Cloning and characterization of postsynaptic density 93, a nitric oxide synthase interacting protein.	Nitric oxide (NO) formation in brain is regulated by the calcium/calmodulin dependence of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS). Calcium influx through NMDA-type glutamate receptors is efficiently coupled to nNOS activity, whereas many other intracellular calcium pathways are poorly coupled. To elucidate possible mechanisms responsible for this coupling, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening to identify proteins that interact with nNOS. Two nNOS interacting proteins were identified: the postsynaptic density proteins PSD-93 and PSD-95. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of PSD-93. PSD-93 is expressed in discrete neuronal populations as well as in specific non-neuronal cells, and it exhibits complex molecular diversity attributable to tissue-specific alternative splicing. PSD-93, like PSD-95, binds to nNOS and to the NMDA receptor 2B. PSD-93, however, is unique among PSD-95/SAP-90 family members in its expression in Purkinje neuron cell bodies and dendrites. We also demonstrate that the PDZ domain at the N terminus of nNOS is required, but it is not sufficient for interaction with PSD-93/95. Given that PSD-93 and PSD-95 each contain multiple potential binding sites for nNOS and the NMDA receptor, complexes involving oligomers of PSD-93/95 may help account for the functional as well as the physical coupling of nNOS to NMDA receptors.
8929531	Serine phosphorylation of death agonist BAD in response to survival factor results in binding to 14-3-3 not BCL-X(L)	Extracellular survival factors alter a cell's susceptibility to apoptosis, often through posttranslational mechanisms. However, no consistent relationship has been established between such survival signals and the BCL-2 family, where the balance of death agonists versus antagonists determines susceptibility. One distant member, BAD, heterodimerizes with BCL-X(L) or BCL-2, neutralizing their protective effect and promoting cell death. In the presence of survival factor IL-3, cells phosphorylated BAD on two serine residues embedded in 14-3-3 consensus binding sites. Only the nonphosphorylated BAD heterodimerized with BCL-X(L) at membrane sites to promote cell death. Phosphorylated BAD was sequestered in the cytosol bound to 14-3-3. Substitution of serine phosphorylation sites further enhanced BAD's death-promoting activity. The rapid phosphorylation of BAD following IL-3 connects a proximal survival signal with the BCL-2 family, modulating this checkpoint for apoptosis.
8940134	Direct binding of the proline-rich region of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B to the Src homology 3 domain of p130(Cas).	Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) is an abundant intracellular enzyme that is thought to act as a negative regulator of certain signaling pathways. The C terminus of PTP1B contains two proline-rich regions which conform to the canonical class II Src homology 3 domain binding motif, Pro-X-X-Pro-X-Arg. In this study, we establish that PTP1B interacts with Crk, Grb2, and p130(Cas) in vitro and with at least one of these, p130(Cas), in intact cells. The interaction of PTP1B and p130(Cas) is independent of tyrosine phosphorylation but can be disrupted by replacing two critical proline residues in the proline-rich domain of PTP1B between amino acids 301 and 315. When wild-type PTP1B is expressed in 3Y1-v-crk cells, p130(Cas) shows substantial dephosphorylation, whereas the PTP1B proline mutant does not have this effect. In 3Y1 and 3Y1 v-crk-transformed fibroblasts, almost all of the total PTP1B and about 40% of total p130(Cas) co-sediment with membranes composed primarily of endoplasmic reticulum. These results suggest that the proline-rich domain between amino acids 301 and 315 in PTP1B binds Src homology 3-containing proteins and that p130(Cas) may be a physiological target of this phosphatase in cells.
8943354	Direct association with and dephosphorylation of Jak2 kinase by the SH2-domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1.	SHP-1 is an SH2-containing cytoplasmic tyrosine phosphatase that is widely distributed in cells of the hematopoietic system. SHP-1 plays an important role in the signal transduction of many cytokine receptors, including the receptor for erythropoietin, by associating via its SH2 domains to the receptors and dephosphorylating key substrates. Recent studies have suggested that SHP-1 regulates the function of Jak family tyrosine kinases, as shown by its constitutive association with the Tyk2 kinase and the hyperphosphorylation of Jak kinases in the motheaten cells that lack functional SHP-1. We have examined the interactions of SHP-1 with two tyrosine kinases activated during engagement of the erythropoietin receptor, the Janus family kinase Jak-2 and the c-fps/fes kinase. Immunoblotting studies with extracts from mouse hematopoietic cells demonstrated that Jak2, but not c-fes, was present in anti-SHP-1 immunoprecipitates, suggesting that SHP-1 selectively associates with Jak2 in vivo. Consistent with this, when SHP-1 was coexpressed with these kinases in Cos-7 cells, it associated with and dephosphorylated Jak2 but not c-fes. Transient cotransfection of truncated forms of SHP-1 with Jak2 demonstrated that the SHP-1-Jak2 interaction is direct and is mediated by a novel binding activity present in the N terminus of SHP-1, independently of SH2 domain-phosphotyrosine interaction. Such SHP-1-Jak2 interaction resulted in induction of the enzymatic activity of the phosphatase in in vitro protein tyrosine phosphatase assays. Interestingly, association of the SH2n domain of SHP-1 with the tyrosine phosphorylated erythropoietin receptor modestly potentiated but was not essential for SHP-1-mediated dephosphorylation of Jak2 and had no effect on c-fes phosphorylation. These data indicate that the main mechanism for regulation of Jak2 phosphorylation by SHP-1 involves a direct, SH2-independent interaction with Jak2 and suggest the existence of similar mechanisms for other members of the Jak family of kinases. They also suggest that such interactions may provide one of the mechanisms that control SHP-1 substrate specificity.
8944023	Identification of a RING protein that can interact in vivo with the BRCA1 gene product.	The hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene, BRCA1, encodes a large polypeptide that contains the cysteine-rich RING motif, a zinc-binding domain found in a variety of regulatory proteins. Here we describe a novel protein that interacts in vivo with the N-terminal region of BRCA1. This BRCA1-associated RING domain (BARD1) protein contains an N-terminal RING motif, three tandem ankyrin repeats, and a C-terminal sequence with significant homology to the phylogenetically conserved BRCT domains that lie near the C terminus of BRCA1. The BARD1/BRCA1 interaction is disrupted by BRCA1 missense mutations that segregate with breast cancer susceptibility, indicating that BARD1 may be involved in mediating tumour suppression by BRCA1.
8946919	Retinoblastoma protein positively regulates terminal adipocyte differentiation through direct interaction with C/EBPs.	To define a mechanism by which retinoblastoma protein (Rb) functions in cellular differentiation, we studied primary fibroblasts from the lung buds of wild-type (RB+/+) and null-mutant (RB-/-) mouse embryos. In culture, the RB+/+ fibroblasts differentiated into fat-storing cells, either spontaneously or in response to hormonal induction; otherwise syngenic RB-/- fibroblasts cultured in identical conditions did not. Ectopic expression of normal Rb, but not Rb with a single point mutation, enabled RB-/- fibroblasts to differentiate into adipocytes. Rb appears in murine fibroblasts to activate CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins (C/EBPs), a family of transcription factors crucial for adipocyte differentiation. Physical interaction between Rb and C/EBPs was demonstrated by reciprocal coimmunoprecipitation, but occurred only in differentiating cells. Wild-type Rb also enhanced the binding of C/EBP to cognate DNA sequences in vitro and the transactivation of a C/EBPbeta-responsive promoter in cells. Taken together, these observations establish a direct and positive role for Rb in terminal differentiation. Such a role contrasts with the function of Rb in arresting cell cycle progression in G1 by negative regulation of other transcription factors like E2F-1.
8948587	Restricted expression of a novel murine atonal-related bHLH protein in undifferentiated neural precursors.	Tissue-specific bHLH proteins play important roles in the specification and differentiation of neural cell lineages in invertebrate and vertebrate organisms. Two groups of bHLH proteins, atonal and achaete-scute, have proneural activities in Drosophila, and the mouse achaete-scute homolog MASH1 is required for the differentiation of several neural lineages. In a screen for proteins interacting with MASH1, we have isolated a novel bHLH protein related to atonal, named MATH4A, which is broadly expressed in neural precursor cells in the mouse embryonic CNS and PNS. Interaction assays in yeast and in vitro demonstrate that MATH4A interacts efficiently with both MASH1 and the ubiquitous bHLH protein E12. MATH4A-E12 heterodimers, but not MATH4A-MASH1, bind to a consensus E-box sequence. Math4A expression is restricted to undifferentiated neural precursors and is complementary to that of Mash1 in most regions of the nervous system. In particular, Math4A is transcribed at high levels in the cerebral cortex, dorsal thalamus, and epibranchial placodes, which present little or no Mash1 expression. However, expression of the two genes shows limited overlap in certain CNS regions (retina, preoptic area of the hypothalamus, midbrain, hindbrain). Its structure and expression pattern suggest that MATH4A may regulate an early step of neural development, either as a partner of ubiquitous bHLH proteins or associated with other neural-specific bHLH proteins.
8955125	The nuclear localization sequences of the BRCA1 protein interact with the importin-alpha subunit of the nuclear transport signal receptor.	The BRCA1 gene product is a nuclear phosphoprotein that is aberrantly localized in the cytoplasm of most breast cancer cells. In an attempt to elucidate the potential mechanism for the nuclear transport of BRCA1 protein, three regions of highly charged, basic residues, 503KRKRRP508, 606PKKNRLRRKS615, and 651KKKKYN656, were identified as potential nuclear localization signals (NLSs). These three regions were subsequently mutated to 503KLP508, 607KLS615, and 651KLN656, respectively. Wild-type and mutated proteins were tagged with the flag epitope, expressed in human DU145 cells, and detected with the M2 monoclonal antibody. In DU145 cells, the KLP mutant completely fails to localize in nuclei, whereas the KLS mutant is mostly cytoplasmic with occasional nuclear localization. The KLN protein is always located in nuclei. Consistently, hSRP1alpha (importin-alpha), a component of the NLS receptor complex, was identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen using BRCA1 as the bait. The specificity of the interaction between BRCA1 and importin-alpha was further demonstrated by showing that the 503KRKRRP508 and 606PKKNRLRRKS615 regions, but not 651KKKKYN656, are critical for this interaction. To determine if the cytoplasmic mislocation of endogenous BRCA1 in breast cancer cells is due to a deficiency of the cells, wild-type BRCA1 protein tagged with the flag epitope was ectopically expressed in six breast cancer cell lines. The analysis demonstrated that, in all six, this protein localized in the cytoplasm of these cells. In contrast, expression of the construct in four non-breast cancer cell lines resulted in nuclear localization. These data support the possibility that the mislocation of the BRCA1 protein in breast cancer cells may be due to a defect in the cellular machinery involved in the NLS receptor-mediated pathway of nuclear import.
8962055	Three-dimensional structure of human electron transfer flavoprotein to 2.1-A resolution.	Mammalian electron transfer flavoproteins (ETF) are heterodimers containing a single equivalent of flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD). They function as electron shuttles between primary flavoprotein dehydrogenases involved in mitochondrial fatty acid and amino acid catabolism and the membrane-bound electron transfer flavoprotein ubiquinone oxidoreductase. The structure of human ETF solved to 2.1-A resolution reveals that the ETF molecule is comprised of three distinct domains: two domains are contributed by the alpha subunit and the third domain is made up entirely by the beta subunit. The N-terminal portion of the alpha subunit and the majority of the beta subunit have identical polypeptide folds, in the absence of any sequence homology. FAD lies in a cleft between the two subunits, with most of the FAD molecule residing in the C-terminal portion of the alpha subunit. Alignment of all the known sequences for the ETF alpha subunits together with the putative FixB gene product shows that the residues directly involved in FAD binding are conserved. A hydrogen bond is formed between the N5 of the FAD isoalloxazine ring and the hydroxyl side chain of alpha T266, suggesting why the pathogenic mutation, alpha T266M, affects ETF activity in patients with glutaric acidemia type II. Hydrogen bonds between the 4'-hydroxyl of the ribityl chain of FAD and N1 of the isoalloxazine ring, and between alpha H286 and the C2-carbonyl oxygen of the isoalloxazine ring, may play a role in the stabilization of the anionic semiquinone. With the known structure of medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, we hypothesize a possible structure for docking the two proteins.
8980683	The crystal structure of horse deoxyhaemoglobin trapped in the high-affinity (R) state.	Co-operative oxygen binding by the vertebrate haemoglobins arises from an equilibrium between a quaternary structure with low affinity (T), favoured in the absence of ligand, and a high affinity form (R) adopted by the fully ligated protein. While R state haemoglobin has an oxygen affinity close to that of isolated subunits, the affinity of the T state is roughly 300-fold lower. The mechanism by which the T state restrains ligand binding, and the pathway of the quaternary transition, have been largely revealed by detailed crystallographic analyses of a number of haemoglobin molecules in the equilibrium states, as well as intermediate forms of the T state including partially ligated species. The ligation intermediates of the R state, however, have not been as well characterized structurally. We report here the crystal structure of one such intermediate species, namely, horse deoxyhaemoglobin in the R state, at 1.8 A resolution. While ligand binding in the T state may result in unfavourable stereochemistry in and around the haem-ligand complex, the more plastic R structure appears to accommodate equally well both liganded and ligand-free haem. Loss of ligand at the R state haem results in movements of the haem and shifts of the FG corners, which form characteristic intersubunit contacts that distinguish the quaternary states. The shifts are comparable in magnitude to the corresponding movements associated with de-ligation in the T state, although they differ in direction. These and other differences illustrate how the structural changes in the haem pocket are communicated to the subunit interfaces and how the movements that can occur in the R state may be impeded in the T state.
8985253	RAIDD is a new 'death' adaptor molecule.	The effector arm of the cell-death pathway is composed of cysteine proteases belonging to the ICE/CED-3 family. In metazoan cells these exist as inactive polypeptide precursors (zymogens), each composed of a prodomain, which is cleaved to activate the protease, and a large and small catalytic subunit. The coupling of these 'death' proteases to signalling pathways is probably mediated by adaptor molecules that contain protein-protein interaction motifs such as the death domain. Here we describe such an adaptor molecule, RAIDD, which has an unusual bipartite architecture comprising a carboxy-terminal death domain that binds to the homologous domain in RIP, a serine/threonine kinase component of the death pathway. The amino-terminal domain is surprisingly homologous with the sequence of the prodomain of two ICE/CED-3 family members, human ICH-1 (ref. 5) and Caenorhabditis elegans CED-3 (ref. 6). This similar region mediates the binding of RAIDD to ICH-1 and CED-3, serving as a direct link to the death proteases, indicating that the prodomain may, through homophilic interactions, determine the specificity of binding of ICE/CED-3 zymogens to regulatory adaptor molecules. Finally, alternations in the sequence of the N-terminal domain that are equivalent to inactivating mutations in the C. elegans ced-3 gene prevent homophilic binding, highlighting the potentially primordial nature of this interaction.
8994040	Reduced ubiquitin-dependent degradation of c-Jun after phosphorylation by MAP kinases.	The proto-oncogene-encoded transcription factor c-Jun activates genes in response to a number of inducers that act through mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction pathways. The activation of c-Jun after phosphorylation by MAPK is accompanied by a reduction in c-Jun ubiquitination and consequent stabilization of the protein. These results illustrate the relevance of regulated protein degradation in the signal-dependent control of gene expression.
8994970	Substrate mimicry in the active center of a mammalian alpha-amylase: structural analysis of an enzyme-inhibitor complex.	BACKGROUND: alpha-Amylases catalyze the hydrolysis of glycosidic linkages in starch and other related polysaccharides. The alpha-amylase inhibitor (alpha-Al) from the bean Phaseolus vulgaris belongs to a family of plant defence proteins and is a potent inhibitor of mammalian alpha-amylases. The structure of pig pancreatic alpha-amylase (PPA) in complex with both a carbohydrate inhibitor (acarbose) and a proteinaceous inhibitor (Tendamistat) is known, but the catalytic mechanism is poorly understood. RESULTS: The crystal structure of pig pancreatic alpha-amylase complexed with alpha-Al was refined to 1.85 A resolution. It reveals that in complex with PPA, the inhibitor has the typical dimer structure common to legume lectins. Two hairpin loops extending out from the jellyroll fold of a monomer interact directly with the active site region of the enzyme molecule, with the inhibitor molecule filling the whole substrate-docking region of the PPA. The inhibitor makes substrate-mimetic interactions with binding subsites of the enzyme and targets catalytic residues in the active site. Binding of inhibitor induces structural changes at the active site of the enzyme. CONCLUSIONS: The present analysis reveals that there are extensive interactions between the inhibitor and residues that are highly conserved in the active site of alpha-amylases; alpha-Al1 inactivates PPA through elaborate blockage of substrate-binding sites. It provides a basis to design peptide analogue inhibitors. alpha-Amylase inhibition is of interest from several points of view, for example the treatment of diabetes and for crop protection.
8995632	Structural analysis of the adenovirus type 5 E1B 55-kilodalton-E4orf6 protein complex.	The adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) early 1B (E1B) 55-kDa (E1B-55kDa)-E4orf6 protein complex has been implicated in the selective modulation of nucleocytoplasmic mRNA transport at late times after infection. Using a combined immunoprecipitation-immunoblotting assay, we mapped the domains in E1B-55kDa required for the interaction with the E4orf6 protein in lytically infected A549 cells. Several domains in the 496-residue 55-kDa polypeptide contributed to a stable association with the E4orf6 protein in E1B mutant virus-infected cells. Linker insertion mutations at amino acids 180 and 224 caused reduced binding of the E4orf6 protein, whereas linker insertion mutations at amino acid 143 and in the central domain of E1B-55kDa eliminated the binding of the E4orf6 protein. Earlier work showing that the central domain of E1B-55kDa is required for binding to p53 and the recent observation that the E4orf6 protein also interacts with the tumor suppressor protein led us to suspect that p53 might play a role in the E1B-E4 protein interaction. However, coimmunoprecipitation assays with extracts prepared from infected p53-negative H1299 cells established that p53 is not needed for the E1B-E4 protein interaction in adenovirus-infected cells. Using two different protein-protein interaction assays, we also mapped the region in the E4orf6 protein required for E1B-55kDa interaction to the amino-terminal 55 amino acid residues. Interestingly, both binding assays established that the same region in the E4orf6/7 protein can potentially interact with E1B-55kDa. Our results demonstrate that two distinct segments in the 55-kDa protein encoding the transformation and late lytic functions independently interact with p53 and the E4orf6 protein in vivo and provide further insight by which the multifunctional 55-kDa EIB protein can exert its multiple activities in lytically infected cells and in adenovirus transformation.
8999859	Replication factor C interacts with the C-terminal side of proliferating cell nuclear antigen.	Replication factor C (RF-C) is a heteropentameric protein essential for DNA replication and repair. It is a molecular matchmaker required for loading of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) onto double-stranded DNA and, thus, for PCNA-dependent DNA elongation by DNA polymerases delta and epsilon. To elucidate the mode of RF-C binding to the PCNA clamp, modified forms of human PCNA were used that could be 32P-labeled in vitro either at the C or the N terminus. Using a kinase protection assay, we show that the heteropentameric calf thymus RF-C was able to protect the C-terminal region but not the N-terminal region of human PCNA from phosphorylation, suggesting that RF-C interacts with the PCNA face at which the C termini are located (C-side). A similar protection profile was obtained with the recently identified PCNA binding region (residues 478-712), but not with the DNA binding region (residues 366-477), of the human RF-C large subunit (Fotedar, R., Mossi, R., Fitzgerald, P., Rousselle, T., Maga, G., Brickner, H., Messner, H., Khastilba, S., Hubscher, U., and Fotedar, A., (1996) EMBO J., 15, 4423-4433). Furthermore, we show that the RF-C 36 kDa subunit of human RF-C could interact independently with the C-side of PCNA. The RF-C large subunit from a third species, namely Drosophila melanogaster, interacted similarly with the modified human PCNA, indicating that the interaction between RF-C and PCNA is conserved through eukaryotic evolution.
9001211	Mos activates myogenic differentiation by promoting heterodimerization of MyoD and E12 proteins.	The activities of myogenic basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) factors are regulated by a number of different positive and negative signals. Extensive information has been published about the molecular mechanisms that interfere with the process of myogenic differentiation, but little is known about the positive signals. We previously showed that overexpression of rat Mos in C2C12 myoblasts increased the expression of myogenic markers whereas repression of Mos products by antisense RNAs inhibited myogenic differentiation. In the present work, our results show that the rat mos proto-oncogene activates transcriptional activity of MyoD protein. In transient transfection assays, Mos promotes transcriptional transactivation by MyoD of the muscle creatine kinase enhancer and/or a reporter gene linked to MyoD-DNA binding sites. Physical interaction between Mos and MyoD, but not with E12, is demonstrated in vivo by using the two-hybrid approach with C3H10T1/2 cells and in vitro by using the glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assays. Unphosphorylated MyoD from myogenic cell lysates and/or bacterially expressed MyoD physically interacts with Mos. This interaction occurs via the helix 2 region of MyoD and a highly conserved region in Mos proteins with 40% similarity to the helix 2 domain of the E-protein class of bHLH factors. Phosphorylation of MyoD by activated GST-Mos protein inhibits the DNA-binding activity of MyoD homodimers and promotes MyoD-E12 heterodimer formation. These data support a novel function for Mos as a mediator (coregulator) of muscle-specific gene(s) expression.
9001246	Rheb interacts with Raf-1 kinase and may function to integrate growth factor- and protein kinase A-dependent signals.	Rheb is a recently described member of the Ras family that was originally identified as an immediate-early gene in brain but is also widely expressed in other tissues. Here we demonstrate that Rheb interacts with and appears to regulate Raf-1 kinase, an essential component of the H-Ras signaling pathway. In direct contrast to H-Ras, however, the interaction of Rheb with Raf-1 is potentiated by growth factors in combination with agents that increase cyclic AMP (cAMP) levels. Protein kinase A-dependent phosphorylation of serine 43 within the regulatory domain of Raf-1 reciprocally potentiates its interaction with Rheb and decreases its interaction with H-Ras. A single amino acid in the G2 effector domain is critical for the differential properties of Rheb. Since Rheb is an immediate-early gene, our studies suggest that Rheb functions in concert with H-Ras to dynamically integrate cAMP and growth factor signaling.
9003792	Association of the yeast poly(A) tail binding protein with translation initiation factor eIF-4G.	Although the cap structure and the poly(A) tail are on opposite ends of the mRNA molecule, previous work has suggested that they interact to enhance translation and inhibit mRNA degradation. Here we present biochemical data that show that the proteins bound to the mRNA cap (eIF-4F) and poly(A) tail (Pab1p) are physically associated in extracts from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Specifically, we find that Pab1p co-purifies and co-immunoprecipitates with the eIF-4G subunit of eIF-4F. The Pab1p binding site on the recombinant yeast eIF-4G protein Tif4632p was mapped to a 114-amino-acid region just proximal to its eIF-4E binding site. Pab1p only bound to this region when complexed to poly(A). These data support the model that the Pablp-poly(A) tail complex on mRNA can interact with the cap structure via eIF-4G.
9006905	A casein kinase I activity is constitutively associated with Nck.	Nck is a 47-kDa cytosolic protein devoid of intrinsic catalytic activity and consisting of Src homology 2 and 3 (SH2 and SH3) domains organized as follows: SH3-SH3-SH3-SH2. Nck is believed to act as an adaptor protein mediating signal transduction initiated by receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). Through its SH2 domain, Nck recognizes a specific phosphotyrosine residue on RTKs or on protein substrates of RTKs like insulin receptor substrate-1, the major substrate of the insulin receptor, and through its SH3 domains it interacts with poorly characterized effector molecules. To identify novel proteins that might interact with Nck, we have used the amino-terminal segment of Nck encompassing its three SH3 domains in the yeast two-hybrid system. Among the polypeptides that associate with Nck, we have identified the gamma2 isoform of the serine/threonine casein kinase I (CKI-gamma2). In transformed rat hepatocytes overexpressing the insulin receptor (HTC-IR cells), serine/threonine protein kinase activity coimmunoprecipitates with Nck, an interaction mediated mainly by the third SH3 domain of Nck. This kinase activity is not apparently modulated by insulin, nor is it sensitive to staurosporine or heparin, and it does not use GTP as a phosphate donor. However the kinase activity coimmunoprecipitated with Nck is completely abolished by N-(2-aminoethyl)-5-chloroisoquinoline-8-sulfonamide, a specific inhibitor of casein kinase I. In an in vitro renaturation gel kinase assay, a protein kinase of 70-75 kDa was detected associated with the SH3 domains of Nck. Far Western analysis demonstrated that the SH3 domains of Nck bound directly to a cytosolic protein of 70-75 kDa. A rabbit polyclonal antibody raised against the C-terminal region of CKI-gamma2 protein kinase immunoprecipitated a single specific protein of 70-75 kDa from HTC-IR cell lysates and detected CKI-gamma2 among the proteins coimmunoprecipitated with Nck. These results support an in vivo interaction between Nck and CKI-gamma2 and suggest that CKI-gamma2 could be involved in signaling pathways downstream of RTKs.
9008167	Association of BRCA1 with Rad51 in mitotic and meiotic cells.	BRCA1 immunostaining reveals discrete, nuclear foci during S phase of the cell cycle. Human Rad51, a homolog of bacterial RecA, behaves similarly. The two proteins were found to colocalize in vivo and to coimmunoprecipitate. BRCA1 residues 758-1064 alone formed Rad51-containing complexes in vitro. Rad51 is also specifically associated with developing synaptonemal complexes in meiotic cells, and BRCA1 and Rad51 were both detected on asynapsed (axial) elements of human synaptonemal complexes. These findings suggest a functional interaction between BRCA1 and Rad51 in the meiotic and mitotic cell cycles, which, in turn, suggests a role for BRCA1 in the control of recombination and of genome integrity.
9010225	Isolation and characterization of e3B1, an eps8 binding protein that regulates cell growth.	Eps8, a substrate of receptor tyrosine kinases, is an SH3 domain containing protein that plays an important role in mitogenic signaling. To determine the cellular function of eps8, we used the SH3 domain of eps8 to screen a human fibroblast M426 expression library and identified, a full-length cDNA clone of 3.2 kb. We designated this clone e3B1 for eps8 SH3 domain binding protein 1. Northern analysis revealed that expression of e3B1 mRNA was ubiquitous in human tissues. The e3B1 gene encodes a SH3 domain containing protein. We show that anti-e3B1 antibodies detect three cytosolic protein species of 65, 68 and 72 kDa in cell lysate isolated from asynchronously growing NIH3T3 cells. E3B1 binds to the SH3 domain of eps8 and Abl in vitro. We also demonstrated that e3B1 associates with eps8 in vivo. Phosphatase digestion and phosphoamino acid analysis revealed that p65e3B1 is a phosphoserine containing protein and p72e3B1 and p68e3B1 are hyperserine-phosphorylated form of p65e3B1. We further determined that the p65e3B1 was the most abundant in serum-starved NIH/EGFR cells. Time course studies initiated by the addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) revealed that the p72e3B1 started to accumulate at 4 h, peaked at 8 h and remained high until 24 h. Finally, we demonstrate that NIH/EGFR fibroblasts overexpressing e3B1 grow more slowly relative to matched controls.
9016636	Yeast two-hybrid cloning of a novel zinc finger protein that interacts with the multifunctional transcription factor YY1.	Muscle-restricted transcription of sarcomeric actin genes is negatively controlled by the zinc finger protein YY1, which is down-regulated at the protein level during myogenic differentiation. To identify cellular proteins that might mediate the function/stability of YY1 in muscle cells, we screened an adult human muscle cDNA library using the yeast two-hybrid cloning system. We report the isolation and characterization of a novel protein termed YAF2 (YY1- associated factor 2) that interacts with YY1. The YAF2 cDNA encodes a 180 amino acid basic protein (pI 10.5) containing a single N-terminal C2-X10-C2 zinc finger. Lysine clusters are present that may function as a nuclear localization signal. Domain mapping analysis shows that the first and second zinc fingers of YY1 are targeted for YAF2 protein interaction. In contrast to the down-regulation of YY1, YAF2 message levels increase during in vitro differentiation of both rat skeletal and cardiac muscle cells. YAF2 appears to have a promyogenic regulatory role, since overexpression of YAF2 in C2 myoblasts stimulates myogenic promoter activity normally restricted by YY1. Co-transfection of YY1 reverses the stimulatory effect of YAF2. YAF2 also greatly potentiates proteolytic cleavage of YY1 by the calcium- activated protease m-calpain. The isolation of YAF2 may help in understanding the mechanisms through which inhibitors of myogenic transcription may be antagonized or eliminated by proteolysis during muscle development.
9020106	Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 forms a complex with the nuclear transporter karyopherin alpha2.	The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is implicated in the induction of several malignancies. The nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) is the only viral protein that is expressed consistently in all EBV-associated tumors. EBNA1 is involved in the replication and maintenance of the viral episome in the infected cell and exhibits oncogenic activity in transgenic mice. Here we report the identification of the nuclear transporter karyopherin alpha2 as a cellular partner of EBNA1 using the yeast "two-hybrid system." Karyopherin alpha2 is also called importin alpha or Rch1. The binding to karyopherin alpha2 was mediated through a C-terminal region of EBNA1 encompassing the nuclear localization signal, whereas clones of EBNA1 devoid of the nuclear localization signal failed to bind to karyopherin alpha2. The interaction was biochemically confirmed by far-Western analysis using bacterially expressed karyopherin alpha2 and karyopherin alpha2-specific monoclonal antibodies. The nuclear transport of EBNA1 was impaired by expression of N-terminally truncated karyopherin alpha2. Zone velocity sedimentation in a sucrose gradient indicated that: (i) EBNA1 and Rch1 colocalize; and (ii) the association of karyopherin alpha2 with high molecular weight protein complexes might be impeded by the presence of EBNA1.
9029147	A protein-arginine methyltransferase binds to the intracytoplasmic domain of the IFNAR1 chain in the type I interferon receptor.	The intracytoplasmic domain (IC) of cytokine receptors provides docking sites for proteins which mediate signal transduction. Thus, in interferon-alpha,beta receptors (IFNAR1 and 2), the IC region binds protein-tyrosine and -serine/threonine kinases which phosphorylate the receptor and the associated Stat transcription factors. A two-hybrid screening was carried out to identify additional proteins which could interact with the IC domain of the IFNAR1 chain of the IFN-alpha,beta receptor. Several positive clones representing a protein sequence designated IR1B4 were recovered from a human cDNA library. IR1B4 was identified as the human homolog of PRMT1, a protein-arginine methyltransferase from rat cells. Flag-IR1B4 fusion proteins bind to the isolated IFNAR1 intracytoplasmic domain produced in Escherichia coli, as well as to the intact IFNAR1 chain extracted by detergent from human U266 cell membranes. S-Adenosylmethionine-dependent methyltransferase activity was precipitated by anti-IFNAR1 antibodies from untreated human cells. IR1B4/PRMT1 is involved in IFN action since U266 cells rendered deficient in this methyltransferase by antisense oligonucleotides become more resistant to growth inhibition by IFN. Methylation of proteins by enzymes which can attach to the IC domains of receptors may be a signaling mechanism complementing protein phosphorylation. Among substrates methylated by PRMT1 are RNA-binding heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) which are involved in mRNA processing, splicing and transport into the cytoplasm.
9030526	Interaction of PKN with alpha-actinin.	PKN is a fatty acid- and Rho-activated serine/threonine protein kinase, having a catalytic domain homologous to protein kinase C family. To identify components of the PKN-signaling pathway such as substrates and regulatory proteins of PKN, the yeast two-hybrid strategy was employed. Using the N-terminal region of PKN as a bait, cDNAs encoding actin cross-linking protein alpha-actinin, which lacked the N-terminal actin-binding domain, were isolated from human brain cDNA library. The responsible region for interaction between PKN and alpha-actinin was determined by in vitro binding analysis using the various truncated mutants of these proteins. The N-terminal region of PKN outside the RhoA-binding domain was sufficiently shown to associate with alpha-actinin. PKN bound to the third spectrin-like repeats of both skeletal and non-skeletal muscle type alpha-actinin. PKN also bound to the region containing EF-hand-like motifs of non-skeletal muscle type alpha-actinin in a Ca2+-sensitive manner and bound to that of skeletal muscle type alpha-actinin in a Ca2+-insensitive manner. alpha-Actinin was co-immunoprecipitated with PKN from the lysate of COS7 cells transfected with both expression constructs for PKN and alpha-actinin lacking the actin-binding domain. In vitro translated full-length alpha-actinin containing the actin-binding site hardly bound to PKN, but the addition of phosphatidylinositol 4, 5-bisphosphate, which is implicated in actin reorganization, stimulated the binding activity of the full-length alpha-actinin with PKN. We therefore propose that PKN is linked to the cytoskeletal network via a direct association between PKN and alpha-actinin.
9032233	Interaction of Ets-1 and the POU-homeodomain protein GHF-1/Pit-1 reconstitutes pituitary-specific gene expression.	The pituitary-specific, POU-homeodomain factor GHF-1/Pit-1 is necessary, but not sufficient, for cell-specific expression of prolactin (PRL), growth hormone (GH), and thyrotropin. Combinatorial interactions of GHF-1 with other factors are likely to be required; however, such factors and their mechanisms of action remain to be elucidated. Here we identify Ets-1 as a factor that functionally and physically interacts with GHF-1 to fully reconstitute proximal PRL promoter activity. In contrast, Ets-2 has no effect, and the alternatively spliced GHF-2/Pit-1beta variant fails to synergize with Ets-1. The Ets-1-GHF-1 synergy requires a composite Ets-1-GHF-1 cis element and is dependent on an Ets-1-specific protein domain. Furthermore, the ancestrally related and GHF-1-dependent GH promoter, which lacks this composite element, does not exhibit this response. Finally, Ets-1, but not Ets-2, binds directly to GHF-1 and GHF-2. These data show that a functional interaction of GHF-1 and Ets-1, acting via a composite DNA element, is required to establish lactotroph-specific PRL gene expression, thus providing a molecular mechanism by which GHF-1 can discriminate between the GH and PRL genes. These results underscore the importance of transcription factors that are distinct from, but interact with, homeobox proteins to establish lineage-specific gene expression.
9032286	Upf1p, Nmd2p, and Upf3p are interacting components of the yeast nonsense-mediated mRNA decay pathway.	Rapid turnover of nonsense-containing mRNAs in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is dependent on Upf1p, Nmd2p, and Upf3p, the products of the UPF1, NMD2/UPF2, and UPF3 genes, respectively. We showed previously that Upf1p and Nmd2p interact and that this interaction is required for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (F. He and A. Jacobson, Genes Dev. 9:437-454, 1995; F. He, A. H. Brown, and A. Jacobson, RNA 2:153-170, 1996). In this study we have used the yeast two-hybrid system to define other protein-protein interactions among the essential components of this decay pathway. Nmd2p-Upf3p and Upf1p-Upf3p interactions were identified, and the respective domains involved in these interactions were delineated by deletion analysis. The domains of Upf1p and Upf3p putatively involved in their mutual interaction were found to correspond to the domains on the two proteins which interact with Nmd2p, suggesting that Nmd2p bridges Upf1p and Upf3p. This conclusion was reinforced by experiments showing that: (i) deletion of NMD2 completely abolishes interactions between Upf1p and Upf3p and (ii) overexpression of full-length Nmd2p or Nmd2p fragments that retain Upf1p- and Upf3p-interacting domains promotes 10- to 200-fold enhancement of Upf1p-Nmd2p-Upf3p complex formation. These results; the observation that cells harboring either single or multiple deletions of UPF1, NMD2, and UPF3 inhibit nonsense-mediated mRNA decay to the same extent; and an analysis of the possible targets of a dominant-negative NMD2 allele indicate that Upf1p, Nmd2p, Upf3p, and at least one other factor are functionally dependent, interacting components of the yeast nonsense-mediated mRNA decay pathway.
9034339	A novel ubiquitin-specific protease is dynamically associated with the PML nuclear domain and binds to a herpesvirus regulatory protein.	Herpes simplex virus type 1 immediate-early protein Vmw110 is a non-specific activator of gene expression and is required for efficient initiation of the viral lytic cycle. Since Vmw110-deficient viruses reactivate inefficiently in mouse latency models it has been suggested that Vmw110 plays a role in the balance between the latent and lytic states of the virus. The mechanisms by which Vmw110 achieves these functions are poorly understood. Vmw110 migrates to discrete nuclear structures (ND10) which contain the cellular PML protein, and in consequence PML and other constituent proteins are dispersed. In addition, Vmw110 binds to a cellular protein of approximately 135 kDa, and its interactions with the 135 kDa protein and ND10 contribute to its ability to stimulate gene expression and viral lytic growth. In this report we identify the 135 kDa protein as a novel member of the ubiquitin-specific protease family. The protease is distributed in the nucleus in a micropunctate pattern with a limited number of larger discrete foci, some of which co-localize with PML in ND10. At early times of virus infection, the presence of Vmw110 increases the proportion of ND10 which contain the ubiquitin-specific protease. These results identify a novel, transitory component of ND10 and implicate a previously uncharacterized ubiquitin-dependent pathway in the control of viral gene expression.
9042965	A-Raf kinase is a new interacting partner of protein kinase CK2 beta subunit.	In a search for protein kinase CK2 beta subunit binding proteins using the two-hybrid system, more than 1000 positive clones were isolated. Beside clones for the alpha' and beta subunit of CK2, there were clones coding for a so far unknown protein, whose partial cDNA sequence was already deposited in the EMBL database under the accession numbers R08806 and Z17360, for the ribosomal protein L5 and for A-Raf kinase. All isolated clones except the one for CK2 beta showed no interaction with the catalytic alpha subunit of CK2. A-Raf kinase is a new interesting partner of CK2 beta. The isolated A-Raf clone represented amino acids 268-606, but also a full length A-Raf clone interacted with CK2 beta. At the site of CK2 beta, residue 175 and amino acids between residues 194 and 200 are likely to be involved in direct interaction.
9045663	Interaction of the phosphotyrosine interaction/phosphotyrosine binding-related domains of Fe65 with wild-type and mutant Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor proteins.	The two tandem phosphotyrosine interaction/phosphotyrosine binding (PID/PTB) domains of the Fe65 protein interact with the intracellular region of the Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). This interaction, previously demonstrated in vitro and in the yeast two hybrid system, also takes place in vivo in mammalian cells, as demonstrated here by anti-Fe65 co-immunoprecipitation experiments. This interaction differs from that occurring between other PID/PTB domain-containing proteins, such as Shc and insulin receptor substrate 1, and activated growth factor receptors as follows: (i) the Fe65-APP interaction is phosphorylation-independent; (ii) the region of the APP intracellular domain involved in the binding is larger than that of the growth factor receptor necessary for the formation of the complex with Shc; and (iii) despite a significant similarity the carboxyl-terminal regions of PID/PTB of Fe65 and of Shc are not functionally interchangeable in terms of binding cognate ligands. A role for Fe65 in the pathogenesis of familial Alzheimer's disease is suggested by the finding that mutant APP, responsible for some cases of familial Alzheimer's disease, shows an altered in vivo interaction with Fe65.
9045683	A sequence in the N-terminal region of human uracil-DNA glycosylase with homology to XPA interacts with the C-terminal part of the 34-kDa subunit of replication protein A.	Uracil-DNA glycosylase releases free uracil from DNA and initiates base excision repair for removal of this potentially mutagenic DNA lesion. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, human uracil-DNA glycosylase encoded by the UNG gene (UNG) was found to interact with the C-terminal part of the 34-kDa subunit of replication protein A (RPA2). No interaction with RPA4 (a homolog of RPA2), RPA1, or RPA3 was observed. A sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with trimeric RPA and the two-hybrid system both demonstrated that the interaction depends on a region in UNG localized between amino acids 28 and 79 in the open reading frame. In this part of UNG a 23-amino acid sequence has a significant homology to the RPA2-binding region of XPA, a protein involved in damage recognition in nucleotide excision repair. Trimeric RPA did not enhance the activity of UNG in vitro on single- or double-stranded DNA. A part of the N-terminal region of UNG corresponding in size to the complete presequence was efficiently removed by proteinase K, leaving the proteinase K-resistant compact catalytic domain intact and fully active. These results indicate that the N-terminal part constitutes a separate structural domain required for RPA binding and suggest a possible function for RPA in base excision repair.
9045686	Fas-associated death domain protein interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme 2 (FLICE2), an ICE/Ced-3 homologue, is proximally involved in CD95- and p55-mediated death signaling.	The pivotal discovery that Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD) interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (FLICE)/MACH was recruited to the CD95 signaling complex by virtue of its ability to bind the adapter molecule FADD established that this protease has a role in initiating the death pathway (Boldin, M. P., Goncharov, T. M. , Goltsev, Y. V., and Wallach, D. (1996) Cell 85, 803-815; Muzio, M., Chinnaiyan, A. M., Kischkel, K. C., O'Rourke, K., Shevchenko, A., Ni, J., Scaffidi, C., Bretz, J. D., Zhang, M., Gentz, R., Mann, M., Krammer, P. H., Peter, M. E., and Dixit, V. M. (1996) Cell 85, 817-827). In this report, we describe the cloning and characterization of a new member of the caspase family, a homologue of FLICE/MACH, and Mch4. Since the overall architecture and function of this molecule is similar to that of FLICE, it has been designated FLICE2. Importantly, the carboxyl-terminal half of the small catalytic subunit that includes amino acids predicted to be involved in substrate binding is distinct. We show that the pro-domain of FLICE2 encodes a functional death effector domain that binds to the corresponding domain in the adapter molecule FADD. Consistent with this finding, FLICE2 is recruited to both the CD95 and p55 tumor necrosis factor receptor signaling complexes in a FADD-dependent manner. A functional role for FLICE2 is suggested by the finding that an active site mutant of FLICE2 inhibits CD95 and tumor necrosis factor receptor-mediated apoptosis. FLICE2 is therefore involved in CD95 and p55 signal transduction.
9045802	Evidence for a multimeric subtilin synthetase complex.	Subtilin is a lanthionine-containing peptide antibiotic (lantibiotic) produced by Bacillus subtilis. It is ribosomally synthesized as a prepeptide and modified posttranslationally. Three proteins of the subtilin gene cluster (SpaB, SpaC, and SpaT) which are probably involved in prepeptide modification and transport have been identified genetically (C. Klein, C. Kaletta, N. Schnell, and K.-D. Entian, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 58: 132-142, 1992). Immunoblot analysis revealed that production of SpaC is strongly regulated (Z. Gutowski-Eckel, C. Klein, K. Siegers, K. Bohm, M. Hammelmann, and K.-D. Entian, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 60:1-11, 1994). Transcription of the SpaC protein started in the late logarithmic growth phase, reaching a maximum in the early stationary growth phase. No SpaC was detectable in the early logarithmic growth phase. Deletions within the spaR and spaK genes, which act as a two-component regulatory system, resulted in failure to express SpaB and SpaC, indicating that these two genes are the regulatory targets. Western blot analysis of vesicle preparations of B. subtilis revealed that the SpaB, SpaT, and SpaC proteins are membrane bound, although some of the protein was also detectable in cell extracts. By using the yeast two-hybrid analysis system for protein interactions, we showed that a complex of at least two each of SpaT, SpaB, and SpaC is most probably associated with the substrate SpaS. These results were also confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation experiments. In these cosedimentation experiments, SpaB and SpaC were coprecipitated by antisera against SpaC, SpaB, and SpaT, as well as by a monoclonal antibody against epitope-tagged SpaS, indicating that these four proteins are associated.
9054412	The human testis determining factor SRY binds a nuclear factor containing PDZ protein interaction domains.	The human Y-linked testis determining gene SRY encodes a protein with a DNA binding domain from the high mobility group box family. To date, no function has been assigned to amino acid sequences located outside this DNA binding motif. Here, we identify in a yeast two-hybrid screen a PDZ protein termed SIP-1, as an interacting protein with human SRY. In vitro, biochemical analysis, immunoprecipitation experiments, as well as expression of SIP-1 in human embryonic testis confirm that the two proteins can interact together. Interacting domains were mapped to the C-terminal seven amino acids of SRY and to the PDZ domains of SIP-1, respectively. We hypothesize that SIP-1 could connect SRY to other transcription factors providing SRY for its missing trans-regulation domain.
9060478	Latent transforming growth factor-beta binding protein domains involved in activation and transglutaminase-dependent cross-linking of latent transforming growth factor-beta.	Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is secreted by many cell types as part of a large latent complex composed of three subunits: TGF-beta, the TGF-beta propeptide, and the latent TGF-beta binding protein (LTBP). To interact with its cell surface receptors, TGF-beta must be released from the latent complex by disrupting noncovalent interactions between mature TGF-beta and its propeptide. Previously, we identified LTBP-1 and transglutaminase, a cross-linking enzyme, as reactants involved in the formation of TGF-beta. In this study, we demonstrate that LTBP-1 and large latent complex are substrates for transglutaminase. Furthermore, we show that the covalent association between LTBP-1 and the extracellular matrix is transglutaminase dependent, as little LTBP-1 is recovered from matrix digests prepared from cultures treated with transglutaminase inhibitors. Three polyclonal antisera to glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins containing amino, middle, or carboxyl regions of LTBP-1S were used to identify domains of LTBP-1 involved in cross-linking and formation of TGF-beta by transglutaminase. Antibodies to the amino and carboxyl regions of LTBP-1S abrogate TGF-beta generation by vascular cell cocultures or macrophages. However, only antibodies to the amino-terminal region of LTBP-1 block transglutaminase-dependent cross-linking of large latent complex or LTBP-1. To further identify transglutaminase-reactive domains within the amino-terminal region of LTBP-1S, mutants of LTBP-1S with deletions of either the amino-terminal 293 (deltaN293) or 441 (deltaN441) amino acids were expressed transiently in CHO cells. Analysis of the LTBP-1S content in matrices of transfected CHO cultures revealed that deltaN293 LTBP-1S was matrix associated via a transglutaminase-dependent reaction, whereas deltaN441 LTBP-1S was not. This suggests that residues 294-441 are critical to the transglutaminase reactivity of LTBP-1S.
9062193	Crystal structure of the type-I interleukin-1 receptor complexed with interleukin-1beta.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is an important mediator of inflammatory disease. The IL-1 family currently consists of two agonists, IL-1alpha and IL-1beta, and one antagonist, IL-1ra. Each of these molecules binds to the type I IL-1 receptor (IL1R). The binding of IL-1alpha or IL-1beta to IL1R is an early step in IL-1 signal transduction and blocking this interaction may therefore be a useful target for the development of new drugs. Here we report the three-dimensional structure of IL-1beta bound to the extracellular domain of IL1R (s-IL1R) at 2.5 A resolution. IL-1beta binds to s-IL1R with a 1:1 stoichiometry. The crystal structure shows that s-IL1R consists of three immunoglobulin-like domains which wrap around IL-1beta in a manner distinct from the structures of previously described cytokine-receptor complexes. The two receptor-binding regions on IL-1beta identified by site-directed mutagenesis both contact the receptor: one binds to the first two domains of the receptor, while the other binds exclusively to the third domain.
9065424	Characterization of the binding of different conformational forms of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 to vitronectin. Implications for the regulation of pericellular proteolysis.	Plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1), the primary physiologic inhibitor of plasminogen activation, is associated with the adhesive glycoprotein vitronectin (Vn) in plasma and the extracellular matrix. In this study we examined the binding of different conformational forms of PAI-1 to both native and urea-purified vitronectin using a solid-phase binding assay. These results demonstrate that active PAI-1 binds to urea-purified Vn with approximately 6-fold higher affinity than to native Vn. In contrast, inactive forms of PAI-1 (latent, elastase-cleaved, synthetic reactive center loop peptide-annealed, or complexed to plasminogen activators) display greatly reduced affinities for both forms of adsorbed Vn, with relative affinities reduced by more than 2 orders of magnitude. Structurally, these inactive conformations all differ from active PAI-1 by insertion of an additional strand into beta-sheet A, suggesting that it is the rearrangement of sheet A that results in reduced Vn affinity. This is supported by the observation that PAI-1 associated with beta-anhydrotrypsin, which does not undergo rearrangement of beta-sheet A, shows no such decrease in affinity, whereas PAI-1 complexed to beta-trypsin, which does undergo sheet A rearrangement, displays reduced affinity for Vn similar to PAI-1.plasminogen activator complexes. Together these data demonstrate that the interaction between PAI-1 and Vn depends on the conformational state of both proteins and suggest that the Vn binding site on PAI-1 is sensitive to structural changes associated with loss of inhibitory activity.
9065434	Constitutive binding of the transcription factor interleukin-2 (IL-2) enhancer binding factor to the IL-2 promoter.	A positive regulatory element in the interleukin-2 (IL-2) promoter, designated the antigen receptor response element-2, is essential for the induction of IL-2 gene expression upon the binding of an inducible multiprotein complex of proteins known as nuclear factor of activated T cells. In the current study, we demonstrated that the winged-helix transcription factor IL-2 enhancer binding factor (ILF) is constitutively expressed in both resting and activated Jurkat cells and binds to two adjacent sequence motifs immediately downstream of the binding site for NFAT. One of these elements has a high degree of homology with consensus binding sites for a variety of winged-helix DNA binding proteins, and the second site functions to modulate ILF binding. Mutagenesis of each of the two sequence elements required for ILF binding decreased IL-2 promoter activity when assayed in transfection assays. Although ILF bound constitutively to the IL-2 promoter, it was not detected as a component of the NFAT complex. These results suggest that important regulatory sequences in the IL-2 promoter are bound by ILF and that this binding may be involved in the control of IL-2 gene expression.
9065479	Identification of a novel protein kinase A anchoring protein that binds both type I and type II regulatory subunits.	Compartmentalization of cAMP-dependent protein kinase is achieved in part by interaction with A-kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs). All of the anchoring proteins identified previously target the kinase by tethering the type II regulatory subunit. Here we report the cloning and characterization of a novel anchoring protein, D-AKAP1, that interacts with the N terminus of both type I and type II regulatory subunits. A novel cDNA encoding a 125-amino acid fragment of D-AKAP1 was isolated from a two-hybrid screen and shown to interact specifically with the type I regulatory subunit. Although a single message of 3.8 kilobase pairs was detected for D-AKAP1 in all embryonic stages and in most adult tissues, cDNA cloning revealed the possibility of at least four splice variants. All four isoforms contain a core of 526 amino acids, which includes the R binding fragment, and may be expressed in a tissue-specific manner. This core sequence was homologous to S-AKAP84, including a mitochondrial signal sequence near the amino terminus (Lin, R. Y., Moss, S. B., and Rubin, C. S. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 27804-27811). D-AKAP1 and the type I regulatory subunit appeared to have overlapping expression patterns in muscle and olfactory epithelium by in situ hybridization. These results raise a novel possibility that the type I regulatory subunit may be anchored via anchoring proteins.
9079683	The molecular interaction of Fas and FAP-1. A tripeptide blocker of human Fas interaction with FAP-1 promotes Fas-induced apoptosis.	Fas (APO-1/CD95), which is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, is a cell surface receptor that induces apoptosis. A protein tyrosine phosphatase, Fas-associated phosphatase-1 (FAP-1), that was previously identified as a Fas binding protein interacts with the C-terminal 15 amino acids of the regulatory domain of the Fas receptor. To identify the minimal region of the Fas C-terminal necessary for binding to FAP-1, we employed an in vitro inhibition assay of Fas/FAP-1 binding using a series of synthetic peptides as well as a screen of random peptide libraries by the yeast two-hybrid system. The results showed that the C-terminal three amino acids (SLV) of human Fas were necessary and sufficient for its interaction with the third PDZ (GLGF) domain of FAP-1. Furthermore, the direct cytoplasmic microinjection of this tripeptide (Ac-SLV) resulted in the induction of Fas-mediated apoptosis in a colon cancer cell line that expresses both Fas and FAP-1. Since t(S/T)X(V/L/I) motifs in the C termini of several other receptors have been shown to interact with PDZ domain in signal transducing molecules, this may represent a general motif for protein-protein interactions with important biological functions.
9079697	Identification of angiotensin II-binding domains in the rat AT2 receptor with photolabile angiotensin analogs.	To identify binding domains between angiotensin II (AngII) and its type 2 receptor (AT2), two different radiolabeled photoreactive analogs were prepared by replacing either the first or the last amino acid in the peptide with p-benzoyl-L-phenylalanine (Bpa). Digestion of photolabeled receptors with kallikrein revealed that the two photoreactive analogs label the amino-terminal part of the receptor within the first 182 amino acids. Digestion of 125I-[Bpa1]AngII.AT2 receptor complex with endoproteinase Lys-C produced a glycoprotein of 80 kDa. Deglycosylation of this 80-kDa product decreased its apparent molecular mass to 4.6 kDa and further cleavage of this 4.6-kDa product with V8 protease decreased its molecular mass to 3.6 kDa, circumscribing the labeling site of 125I-[Bpa1]AngII within amino acids 3-30 of AT2 receptor. Treatment of 125I-[Bpa8]AngII.AT2 receptor complex with cyanogen bromide produced two major receptor fragments of 3.6 and 2.6 kDa. Cyanogen bromide hydrolysis of a mutant AT2 receptor produced two major fragments of 12.6 kDa and 2.6 kDa defining the labeling site of 125I-[Bpa8]AngII within residues 129-138 of AT2 receptor. Our results indicate that the amino-terminal tail of the AT2 receptor interacts with the amino-terminal end of AngII, whereas the inner half of the third transmembrane domain of AT2 receptor interacts with the carboxyl-terminal end of AngII.
9079700	Characterization of a novel mammalian RGS protein that binds to Galpha proteins and inhibits pheromone signaling in yeast.	Genetic studies of molecules that negatively regulate G-coupled receptor functions have led to the identification of a large gene family with an evolutionarily conserved domain, termed the RGS domain. It is now understood that RGS proteins serve as GTPase-activating proteins for subfamilies of the heterotrimeric G-proteins. We have isolated from mouse pituitary a full-length cDNA clone encoding a novel member of the RGS protein family, termed RGS16, as well as the full-length cDNA of mRGS5 and mRGS2. Tissue distribution analysis shows that the novel RGS16 is predominantly expressed in liver and pituitary, and that RGS5 is preferentially expressed in heart and skeletal muscle. In contrast, RGS2 is widely expressed. Genetic analysis using the pheromone response halo assay and FUS1 gene induction assay show that overexpression of the RGS16 gene dramatically inhibits yeast response to alpha-factor, whereas neither RGS2 nor RGS5 has any discernible effect on pheromone sensitivity, pointing to a possible functional diversity among RGS proteins. In vitro binding assays reveal that RGS5 and RGS16 bind to Galphai and Galphao subunits of heterotrimeric G-proteins, but not to Galphas. Based on mutational analysis of the conserved residues in the RGS domain, we suggest that the G-protein binding and GTPase-activating protein activity may involve distinct functional structures of the RGS proteins, indicating that RGS proteins may exert a dual function in the attenuation of signaling via G-coupled receptors.
9092546	Interaction of MAD2 with the carboxyl terminus of the insulin receptor but not with the IGFIR. Evidence for release from the insulin receptor after activation.	We have utilized the yeast two-hybrid system to identify proteins that interact with the cytoplasmic domain of the insulin receptor (IR). We identified a human cDNA encoding a protein that appears to be the human homolog of the yeast MAD2 protein, which we term hMAD2. The yeast MAD2 protein was first identified in a genetic screen to identify cell cycle checkpoint regulatory proteins, yet the mechanism by which MAD2 functions in cell cycle control is currently unclear. Here we show that hMAD2 requires the COOH-terminal 30 amino acids of the IR for interaction and that hMAD2 does not interact with the related insulin-like growth factor I receptor. Interestingly, hMAD2 does not require IR tyrosine autophosphorylation for interaction because it interacts with a kinase-dead IR in the yeast two-hybrid system. In support of this finding, hMAD2-GST fusions were found to interact strongly in vitro with receptors derived from noninsulin-stimulated cells. Furthermore, using two independent in vitro assays, IR activation was found to significantly reduce the interaction of hMAD2 with the IR. Lastly, we show that hMAD2 can be coimmunoprecipitated with the IR from Chinese hamster ovary IR cell lysates, suggesting that this interaction occurs in vivo in cells of mammalian origin. Our results suggest that hMAD2 represents a novel class of proteins that is specific for interaction with the IR as compared with the insulin-like growth factor I receptor and that interacts best with the inactive IR and is released upon receptor autophosphorylation. The function of hMAD2 and its potential role in insulin signaling remain to be elucidated.
9092835	Structure of a product complex of spinach ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase.	The crystal structure of an activated complex of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase from spinach and its product 3-phosphoglycerate has been determined to 2.2 A resolution. The structure is of the open form with the active site accessible to the solvent as observed in the structures of the activated ligand-free enzyme and the complex of the activated enzyme with the substrate ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate. Two molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate are bound per active site. The phosphates of both molecules bind approximately at the same position as the phosphates of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate or the six-carbon intermediate analogue 2-carboxyarabinitol-1,5-bisphosphate, but one product molecule is swung out from the active site with its carboxylate group pointing toward solution. The present structure points to direct participation of the active site side chain of lysine 175 in later stages of catalysis. This possibility is discussed in the light of mutagenesis studies.
9096323	CREB-binding protein/p300 are transcriptional coactivators of p65.	CBP (CREB-binding protein) and p300 are versatile coactivators that link transcriptional activators to the basal transcriptional apparatus. In the present study, we identify CBP and p300 as coactivators of the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) component p65 (RelA). Consistent with their role as coactivators, both CBP and p300 potentiated p65-activated transcription of E-selectin and VCAM-1-CAT reporter constructs. The N- and C-terminal domains of both CBP/p300 functionally interact with a region of p65 containing the transcriptional activation domain as demonstrated by mammalian two-hybrid assays. Direct physical interactions of CBP/p300 with p65 were demonstrated by glutathione S-transferase fusion protein binding, and coimmunoprecipitation/Western blot studies. The adenovirus E1A 12S protein, which complexes with CBP and p300, inhibited p65-dependent gene expression. Reporter gene expression could be rescued from E1A inhibition by overexpression of CBP or p300. CBP and p300 act as coactivators of p65-driven gene activation and may play an important role in the cytokine-induced expression of various immune and inflammatory genes.
9097926	Binding and inhibition of myeloperoxidase (MPO): a major function of ceruloplasmin?	Interactions between plasma proteins and MPO were studied. The protein fraction of normal plasma and serum was shown to exhibit an inhibitory effect on the peroxidase activity of MPO. Most of the inhibitory effect could be retained on an MPO-coupled affinity chromatography column. In particular, a protein with apparent mol. wt of 130 kD showed affinity for MPO. The protein was identified as ceruloplasmin by N-terminal amino acid sequencing and immunochemistry. During separation procedures the peroxidase inhibitory effect was limited to ceruloplasmin-containing fractions of plasma. Purified ceruloplasmin inhibited the peroxidase activity of MPO in a concentration-dependent manner, and exhibited selective binding to MPO-coated microtitre plates. This binding could be inhibited by MPO dissolved in buffer. Correspondingly the binding of MPO to ceruloplasmin-coated plates could be blocked by ceruloplasmin in solution, showing a physical interaction to occur between the two proteins under physiological conditions. We also found affinity to exist between MPO and C3 (and its C3d-containing fragments). However, C3 and C3 fragments did not inhibit the peroxidase reaction in vitro. We propose that ceruloplasmin takes part in the clearance and inactivation of MPO, in vivo. We also speculate that impaired inactivation of MPO may have a pathophysiological role in inflammatory diseases characterized by autoantibodies to MPO, such as rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis with P-ANCA (perinuclear anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies).
9099670	Physical association with ras enhances activation of membrane-bound raf (RafCAAX).	The transforming activity of artificially membrane-targeted Raf1 suggests that Ras-mediated recruitment of Raf1 to the plasma membrane is an important step in Raf1 activation. Cellular Ras is concentrated in the caveolae, a microdomain of the plasma membrane that is highly enriched in caveolin, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins, and signal transduction molecules. Growth factor stimulation recruits Raf1 to this membrane domain. Whether Ras simply promotes Raf1 association with caveolae membranes or also modulates subsequent activation events is presently unclear. We have identified a ras variant, ras12V,37G, that does not interact with Raf1 but does interact with a mutant raf1, raf1(257L). To examine the role of Ras in the activation of membrane-bound Raf1, raf1CAAX, and raf1(257L)CAAX, membrane-targeted variants of Raf1 and raf1(257L), respectively, were expressed in fibroblasts with or without coexpression of ras12V, 37G. Cell fractionation localized both raf1CAAX and raf1(257L)CAAX to caveolae membranes independent of ras12V,37G expression; however, coexpression of ras12V,37G enhanced the activation of raf(257L)CAAX, but not raf1CAAX, as monitored by induction of cellular transformation, increased Raf kinase activity, and induction of activated MAP kinase. These results suggest that the Ras/Raf1 interaction plays a role in Raf1 activation that is distinct from membrane recruitment.
9102465	Molecular interactions between the importin alpha/beta heterodimer and proteins involved in vertebrate nuclear protein import.	We have used in vitro binding assays to examine specific interactions between a number of cytoplasmic and nuclear pore proteins involved in nuclear protein import in vertebrates. We demonstrate that nuclear transport factor 2 (NTF2), nucleoporin p62 and the Ras-like GTPase Ran bind to the importin heterodimer via its beta subunit. The binding behaviour of p62 truncation mutants indicated that importin-beta interacts primarily with the alpha-helical coiled-coil rod domain of nucleoporin p62 and not with the N-terminal domain that contains a number of degenerate repeats based on the xFxFG sequence motif. The binding of Ran to importin-beta was sensitive to its nucleotide state, with RanGTP binding strongly, whereas RanGDP binding could not be detected using our assay conditions. RanGTP, but not RanGDP, was able to displace p62 bound to the importin alpha/beta complex, suggesting that the binding sites for p62 and RanGTP on importin-beta overlap. Moreover, RanGTP, but not RanGDP, weakened the interaction between importin-alpha and importin-beta in a concentration-dependent manner. NTF2 bound to the importin heterodimer but did not displace p62, suggesting that the NTF2 and p62 binding sites on importin-beta do not overlap. The set of interactions we observed was not altered by the binding of NLS-containing substrates such as transcription factor IIIA to the importin heterodimer. Our results are consistent with models for nuclear protein import in which Ran nucleotide exchange modulates the binding of the importin-substrate complexes during translocation through nuclear pore complexes.
9108029	AP-1 transcriptional activity is regulated by a direct association between thioredoxin and Ref-1.	Thioredoxin (TRX) is a pleiotropic cellular factor that has thiol-mediated redox activity and is important in regulation of cellular processes, including proliferation, apoptosis, and gene expression. The activity of several transcription factors is posttranslationally altered by redox modification(s) of specific cysteine residue(s). One such factor is nuclear factor (NF)-kappa B, whose DNA-binding activity is markedly augmented by TRX treatment in vitro. Similarly, the DNA-binding activity of activator protein 1 (AP-1) is modified by a DNA repair enzyme, redox factor 1 (Ref-1), which is identical to a DNA repair enzyme, AP endonuclease. Ref-1 activity is in turn modulated by various redox-active compounds, including TRX. We here report the molecular cascade of redox regulation of AP-1 mediated by TRX and Ref-1. Phorbol 12-myristate 13 acetate efficiently translocated TRX into the HeLa cell nucleus where Ref-1 preexists. This process seems to be essential for AP-1 activation by redox modification because co-overexpression of TRX and Ref-1 in COS-7 cells potentiated AP-1 activity only after TRX was transported into the nucleus by phorbol 12-myristate 13 acetate treatment. To prove the direct active site-mediated association between TRX and Ref-1, we generated a series of substitution-mutant cysteine residues of TRX. In both an in vitro diamide-induced cross-linking study and an in vivo mammalian two-hybrid assay we proved that TRX can associate directly with Ref-1 in the nucleus; also, we demonstrated the requirement of cysteine residues in the TRX catalytic center for the potentiation of AP-1 activity. This report presents an example of a cascade in cellular redox regulation.
9108473	DFF, a heterodimeric protein that functions downstream of caspase-3 to trigger DNA fragmentation during apoptosis.	We have identified and purified from HeLa cytosol a protein that induces DNA fragmentation in coincubated nuclei after it is activated by caspase-3. This protein, designated DNA Fragmentation Factor (DFF), is a heterodimer of 40 kDa and 45 kDa subunits. The amino acid sequence of the 45 kDa subunit, determined from its cDNA sequence, reveals it to be a novel protein. Caspase-3 cleaves the 45 kDa subunit at two sites to generate an active factor that produces DNA fragmentation without further requirement for caspase-3 or other cytosolic proteins. In cells undergoing apoptosis, the 45 kDa subunit is cleaved in the same pattern as it is cleaved by caspase-3 in vitro. These data delineate a direct signal transduction pathway during apoptosis: caspase-3 to DFF to DNA fragmentation.
9108481	Core structure of gp41 from the HIV envelope glycoprotein.	The envelope glycoprotein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) consists of a complex of gp120 and gp41. gp120 determines viral tropism by binding to target-cell receptors, while gp41 mediates fusion between viral and cellular membranes. Previous studies identified an alpha-helical domain within gp41 composed of a trimer of two interacting peptides. The crystal structure of this complex, composed of the peptides N36 and C34, is a six-helical bundle. Three N36 helices form an interior, parallel coiled-coil trimer, while three C34 helices pack in an oblique, antiparallel manner into highly conserved, hydrophobic grooves on the surface of this trimer. This structure shows striking similarity to the low-pH-induced conformation of influenza hemagglutinin and likely represents the core of fusion-active gp41. Avenues for the design/discovery of small-molecule inhibitors of HIV infection are directly suggested by this structure.
9110993	Identification of the domain of alpha-catenin involved in its association with beta-catenin and plakoglobin (gamma-catenin).	alpha-Catenin is a 102-kDa protein exhibiting homology to vincuin, and it forms complexes with cadherins or the tumor-suppressor gene product adenomatous polyposis coli through binding to beta-catenin or plakoglobin (gamma-catenin). The incorporation of alpha-catenin into the cadherin-catenin complexes is a prerequisite for expression of the cell-adhesive activity of cadherins. Using an in vitro assay system involving bacterially expressed proteins, we localized a region in alpha-catenin required for molecular interaction with beta-catenin and plakoglobin. Analysis of various truncated alpha-catenin molecules revealed that amino-terminal residues 48-163 are able to bind to beta-catenin and plakoglobin. Consistent with the observation that beta-catenin and plakoglobin bind to the same region of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin competed with the binding of plakoglobin to alpha-catenin and vice versa. Under the conditions used, beta-catenin bound to alpha-catenin with higher affinity than did plakoglobin. Scatchard analysis indicated that the affinity of the interaction between alpha-catenin and beta-catenin or that between alpha-catenin and plakoglobin was moderately strong (Kd = 3. 8 x 10(-8) and 7.7 x 10(-8), respectively). When transfected into L cells expressing E-cadherin, the amino-terminal region of alpha-catenin (from residue 1 to 226) formed complexes with beta-catenin supporting the in vitro binding experiment results.
9111042	A common binding site mediates heterodimerization and homodimerization of Bcl-2 family members.	Bcl-2 inhibits apoptosis induced by a wide variety of stimuli. In contrast, the Bcl-2 homologue, Bax, antagonizes Bcl-2's death protecting function. Bcl-2 forms protein-protein homodimers with itself and heterodimers with Bax, and previous experiments have shown that point mutations in Bcl-2 can abrogate Bax binding while leaving homodimerization intact. These mutagenesis results can be interpreted to suggest that Bcl-2 has separate binding sites that are responsible for homodimer and heterodimer formation. Results from yeast two-hybrid studies have also suggested that homodimerization and heterodimerization reflect distinct modes of interaction. However, using quantitative plate binding assays, we now show that Bax as well as peptides derived from the BH3 domains of Bax and Bak block both Bcl-2/Bax binding and Bcl-2/Bcl-2 binding. Similar assays demonstrate that Bcl-xL can form both homodimers and heterodimers and that these interactions are also inhibited by Bax and the BH3-derived peptides. These results demonstrate that the same binding motifs are responsible for both homodimerization and heterodimerization of Bcl-2 family members.
9111084	14-3-3 (epsilon) interacts with the insulin-like growth factor I receptor and insulin receptor substrate I in a phosphoserine-dependent manner.	The 14-3-3 proteins have been implicated as potential regulators of diverse signaling pathways. Here, using two-hybrid assays and in vitro assays of protein interaction, we show that the epsilon isoform of 14-3-3 interacts with the insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGFIR) and with insulin receptor substrate I (IRS-1), but not with the insulin receptor (IR). Coprecipitation studies demonstrated an IGFI-dependent in vitro interaction between 14-3-3-glutathione S-transferase proteins and the IGFIR. In similar studies no interaction of 14-3-3 with the IR was observed. We present evidence to suggest that 14-3-3 interacts with phosphoserine residues within the COOH terminus of the IGFIR. Specifically, peptide competition studies combined with mutational analysis suggested that the 14-3-3 interaction was dependent upon phosphorylation of IGFIR serine residues 1272 and/or 1283, a region which has been implicated in IGFIR-dependent transformation. Phosphorylation of these serines appears to be dependent upon prior IGFIR activation since no interaction of 14-3-3 was observed with a kinase-inactive IGFIR in the two-hybrid assay nor was any in vitro interaction with unstimulated IGFIR derived from mammalian cells. We show that the interaction of 14-3-3 with IRS-1 also appears to be phosphoserine-dependent. Interestingly, 14-3-3 appears to interact with IRS-1 before and after hormonal stimulation. In summary, our data suggest that 14-3-3 interacts with phosphoserine residues within the COOH terminus of the IGFIR and within the central domain of IRS-1. The potential functional roles which 14-3-3 may play in IGFIR and IRS-1-mediated signaling remain to be elucidated.
9114003	The bovine papillomavirus E6 oncoprotein interacts with paxillin and disrupts the actin cytoskeleton.	The E6 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1) has been shown to transform cells through a p53-independent pathway, but its transforming mechanism is unknown. Here we demonstrate in vitro and in vivo interactions between BPV-1 E6 and the focal adhesion protein paxillin. The ability of BPV-1 E6 to complex with paxillin correlated with its ability to transform; E6 mutant proteins impaired in their transformation function also were impaired in their abilities to bind paxillin. E6 binding to paxillin also may contribute to the carcinogenic potential of the human papillomavirus (HPV); we were able to show in vitro binding of paxillin to the E6 proteins of the cancer-associated type HPV 16 but not of the nononcogenic types 6 and 11. The association of E6 with paxillin was affected by depolymerization of the actin fiber network, and overexpression of BPV-1 E6 led to disruption of actin fiber formation. Disruption of the actin cytoskeleton is a characteristic of many transformed cells, and, in BPV-1 transformed cells, may be mediated by BPV-1 E6 through its interaction with paxillin.
9114012	Two active states of the Ras-related Bud1/Rsr1 protein bind to different effectors to determine yeast cell polarity.	Cells of budding yeast organize their cytoskeleton in a highly polarized manner during vegetative growth. Selection of a site for polarization requires a group of proteins including a Ras-like GTPase, Bud1, and its regulators. Another group of proteins, which includes a Rho-like GTPase (Cdc42), its guanine nucleotide exchange factor (Cdc24), and Bem1, is necessary for organization of the actin cytoskeleton and for cell polarization. We have proposed previously that the Bud1 protein, through its GTPase cycle, determines the localization of one or more of the cell polarity proteins to the bud site. Herein we demonstrate that Bud1 directly interacts with Cdc24 and Bem1: Bud1 in its GTP-bound form associates preferentially with Cdc24, whereas the GDP-bound form of Bud1 associates with Bem1. We also present subcellular fractionation data for Bud1 that is consistent with the idea that Bud1 can travel between the site for budding on the plasma membrane and the cytosol. We propose that Bud1 can exist in two active states for association with different partners and that the switch from Bud1-GTP to Bud1-GDP provides a regulatory device for ordered assembly of a macromolecular complex at the bud site.
9115216	Monocyte chemotactic protein-2 (MCP-2) uses CCR1 and CCR2B as its functional receptors.	Monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-2 is a member of the C-C chemokine subfamily, which shares more than 60% sequence homology with MCP-1 and MCP-3 and about 30% homology with macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha, regulated on activation of normal T cell expressed (RANTES), and MIP-1beta. Despite this considerable sequence homology to other C-C chemokines, MCP-2 appears to have unique functional properties in comparison with other C-C chemokines such as MCP-1 and MCP-3. Although evidence obtained from studies on leukocytes suggested that MCP-2 may share the receptors with these C-C chemokines, the actual functional receptors for MCP-2 have not yet been identified. In this study, by using radioiodinated MCP-2, we identified high affinity binding sites for MCP-2 on human peripheral blood monocytes. The MCP-2 binding was competed for by MCP-1 and MCP-3, but less well by MIP-1alpha or RANTES. In experiments using cells transfected with C-C chemokine receptors, 125I-MCP-2 bound to human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with CCR1 or CCR2B, known to also bind MIP-1alpha/RANTES and MCP-1, respectively, but both shared by MCP-3. The binding of 125I-MCP-2 to these receptor-transfected cells was displaced completely by chemokines that bind to these receptors. Both CCR1- and CCR2B-transfected 293 cells showed significant migration in response to MCP-2, in addition to responding to other specific chemokines. These results clearly demonstrate that MCP-2, unlike MCP-1, uses both CCR1 as well as CCR2B as its functional receptors, and this accounts for the unique activities of MCP-2.
9115221	Coassociation of Rap1A and Ha-Ras with Raf-1 N-terminal region interferes with ras-dependent activation of Raf-1.	Raf-1 is a major downstream effector of mammalian Ras. Binding of the effector domain of Ras to the Ras-binding domain of Raf-1 is essential for Ras-dependent Raf-1 activation. However, Rap1A, which has an identical effector domain to that of Ras, cannot activate Raf-1 and even antagonizes several Ras functions in vivo. Recently, we identified the cysteine-rich region (CRR) of Raf-1 as another Ras-binding domain. Ha-Ras proteins carrying mutations N26G and V45E, which failed to bind to CRR, also failed to activate Raf-1. Since these mutations replace Ras residues with those of Rap1A, we examined if Rap1A lacks the ability to bind to CRR. Contrary to the expectation, Rap1A exhibited a greatly enhanced binding to CRR compared with Ha-Ras. Enhanced CRR binding was also found with Ha-Ras carrying another Rap1A-type mutation E31K. Both Rap1A and Ha-Ras(E31K) mutant failed to activate Raf-1 and interfered with Ha-Ras-dependent activation of Raf-1 in Sf9 cells. Enhanced binding of Rap1A to CRR led to co-association of Rap1A and Ha-Ras with Raf-1 N-terminal region through binding to CRR and Ras-binding domain, respectively. These results suggest that Rap1A interferes with Ras-dependent Raf-1 activation by inhibiting binding of Ras to Raf-1 CRR.
9121467	Specificity of p47phox SH3 domain interactions in NADPH oxidase assembly and activation.	The delineation of molecular structures that dictate Src homology 3 (SH3) domain recognition of specific proline-rich ligands is key to understanding unique functions of diverse SH3 domain-containing signalling molecules. We recently established that assembly of the phagocyte NADPH oxidase involves multiple SH3 domain interactions between several oxidase components (p47phox, p67phox, and p22phox). p47phox was shown to play a central role in oxidase activation in whole cells by mediating interactions with both the transmembrane component p22phox and cytosolic p67phox. To understand the specific roles of each SH3 domain of p47phox in oxidase assembly and activation, we mutated critical consensus residues (Tyr167 or Tyr237-->Leu [Y167L or Y237L], W193R or W263R, and P206L or P276L) on each of their binding surfaces. The differential effects of these mutations indicated that the first SH3 domain is responsible for the p47phox-p22phox interaction and plays a predominant role in oxidase activity and p47phox membrane assembly, while the second p47phox SH3 domain interacts with the NH2-terminal domain of p67phox. Binding experiments using the isolated first SH3 domain also demonstrated its involvement in intramolecular interactions within p47phox and showed a requirement for five residues (residues 151 to 155) on its N-terminal boundary for binding to p22phox. The differential effects of nonconserved-site mutations (W204A or Y274A and E174Q or E244Q) on whole-cell oxidase activity suggested that unique contact residues within the third binding pocket of each SH3 domain influence their ligand-binding specificities.
9122164	The von Hippel-Lindau tumor-suppressor gene product forms a stable complex with human CUL-2, a member of the Cdc53 family of proteins.	The inactivation of the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) gene predisposes affected individuals to VHL syndrome and is an early genetic event associated with sporadic renal cell carcinoma and CNS hemangioblastomas. The VHL protein (pVHL) has been shown to form a stable complex with elongin B and elongin C, two factors that stabilize and activate the transcription elongation factor elongin A. Here, Hs-CUL-2, a member of the recently identified multigene family, the cullins, is shown to specifically associate with the trimeric pVHL-elongin B-C (VBC) complex in vitro and in vivo. Nearly 70% of naturally occurring cancer-predisposing mutations of VHL disrupt this interaction. The pVHL-Hs-CUL-2 association is strictly dependent on the integrity of the trimeric VBC complex. Immunofluorescence studies show Hs-CUL-2 to be a cytosolic protein that can be translocated to the nucleus by pVHL. Recently it has been shown that a yeast Hs-CUL-2 homolog, Cdc53, is part of a ubiquitin protein ligase complex that targets cell cycle proteins for degradation by the ubiquitin proteolytic pathway. In Caenorhabditis elegans, a null mutation of another Hs-cul-2 homolog, Ce-cul-1, results in hyperplasia in all tissues and is required for cell cycle exit. Hence, Hs-cul-2 may be required for VHL function and, therefore, may be a candidate human tumor-suppressor gene.
9130713	harakiri, a novel regulator of cell death, encodes a protein that activates apoptosis and interacts selectively with survival-promoting proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L).	Programmed cell death is essential in organ development and tissue homeostasis and its deregulation is associated with the development of several diseases in mice and humans. The precise mechanisms that control cell death have not been elucidated fully, but it is well established that this form of cellular demise is regulated by a genetic program which is activated in the dying cell. Here we report the identification, cloning and characterization of harakiri, a novel gene that regulates apoptosis. The product of harakiri, Hrk, physically interacts with the death-repressor proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L), but not with death-promoting homologs, Bax or Bak. Hrk lacks conserved BH1 and BH2 regions and significant homology to Bcl-2 family members or any other protein, except for a stretch of eight amino acids that exhibits high homology with BH3 regions. Expression of Hrk induces cell death which is inhibited by Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L). Deletion of 16 amino acids including the conserved BH3 region abolished the ability of Hrk to interact with Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L) in mammalian cells. Moreover, the killing activity of this mutant form of Hrk (Hrk deltaBH3) was eliminated or dramatically reduced, suggesting that Hrk activates cell death at least in part by interacting with and inhibiting the protection afforded by Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L). Because Hrk lacks conserved BH1 and BH2 domains that define Bcl-2 family members, we propose that Hrk and Bik/Nbk, another BH3-containing protein that activates apoptosis, represent a novel class of proteins that regulate apoptosis by interacting selectively with survival-promoting Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L).
9133424	STAM, signal transducing adaptor molecule, is associated with Janus kinases and involved in signaling for cell growth and c-myc induction.	We previously identified a putative signal transducing adaptor molecule, named STAM, that contains an Src homology 3 (SH3) domain and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM). In this report, we demonstrate the functional significance of STAM in cytokine-mediated signal transduction. STAM is associated with Jak3 and Jak2 tyrosine kinases via its ITAM region and phosphorylated by Jak3 and Jak2 upon stimulation with IL-2 and GM-CSF, respectively. An SH3 deletion mutant of STAM confers a dominant-negative effect on DNA synthesis mediated by IL-2 and GM-CSF. Furthermore, the wild-type STAM, but not STAM mutants deleted of SH3 and ITAM, significantly enhances c-myc induction mediated by IL-2 and GM-CSF. These results strongly implicate STAM in the signaling pathways for cell growth and c-myc induction immediately downstream of the Jaks associated with the cytokine receptors.
9144171	Protein binding and signaling properties of RIN1 suggest a unique effector function.	Human RIN1 was first characterized as a RAS binding protein based on the properties of its carboxyl-terminal domain. We now show that full-length RIN1 interacts with activated RAS in mammalian cells and defines a minimum region of 434 aa required for efficient RAS binding. RIN1 interacts with the "effector domain" of RAS and employs some RAS determinants that are common to, and others that are distinct from, those required for the binding of RAF1, a known RAS effector. The same domain of RIN1 that binds RAS also interacts with 14-3-3 proteins, extending the similarity between RIN1 and other RAS effectors. When expressed in mammalian cells, the RAS binding domain of RIN1 can act as a dominant negative signal transduction blocker. The amino-terminal domain of RIN1 contains a proline-rich sequence similar to consensus Src homology 3 (SH3) binding regions. This RIN1 sequence shows preferential binding to the ABL-SH3 domain in vitro. Moreover, the amino-terminal domain of RIN1 directly associates with, and is tyrosine phosphorylated by, c-ABL. In addition, RIN1 encodes a functional SH2 domain that has the potential to activate downstream signals. These data suggest that RIN1 is able to mediate multiple signals. A differential pattern of expression and alternate splicing indicate several levels of RIN1 regulation.
9147654	HIP-I: a huntingtin interacting protein isolated by the yeast two-hybrid system.	We report the discovery of the huntingtin interacting protein I (HIP-I) which binds specifically to the N-terminus of human huntingtin, both in the two-hybrid screen and in in vitro binding experiments. For the interaction in vivo, a protein region downstream of the polyglutamine stretch in huntingtin is essential. The HIP1 cDNA isolated by the two-hybrid screen encodes a 55 kDa fragment of a novel protein. Using an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody raised against recombinant HIP-I, a protein of 116 kDa was detected in brain extracts by Western blot analysis. The predicted amino acid sequence of the HIP-I fragment exhibits significant similarity to cytoskeleton proteins, suggesting that HIP-I and huntingtin play a functional role in the cell filament networks. The HIP1 gene is ubiquitously expressed in different brain regions at low level. HIP-I is enriched in human brain but can also be detected in other human tissues as well as in mouse brain. HIP-I and huntingtin behave almost identically during subcellular fractionation and both proteins are enriched in the membrane containing fractions.
9148763	Interaction of Nck-associated protein 1 with activated GTP-binding protein Rac.	Bacterially expressed glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins containing Rac1 were used to identify binding proteins of this Rho family GTPase present in a bovine brain extract. Five proteins of 85, 110, 125, 140 and 170 kDa were detected, all of which were associated exclusively with guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate-bound Rac1, not with GDP-bound Rac1. The 85 and 110 kDa proteins were identified as the regulatory and catalytic subunits respectively of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Several lines of evidence suggested that the 125 kDa protein is identical with Nck-associated protein 1 (Nap1). The mobilities of the 125 kDa protein and Nap1 on SDS/PAGE were indistinguishable, and the 125 kDa protein was depleted from brain extract by preincubation with the Src homology 3 domain of Nck to which Nap1 binds. Furthermore, antibodies to Nap1 reacted with the 125 kDa protein. Nap1 was co-immunoprecipitated with a constitutively active form of Rac expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The observation that complex formation between activated Rac and PAK, but not that between Rac and Nap1, could be reproduced in vitro with recombinant proteins indicates that the interaction of Nap1 with Rac is indirect. The 140 kDa Rac-binding protein is a potential candidate for a link that connects Nap1 to Rac. The multimolecular complex comprising Rac, Nap1 and probably the 140 kDa protein might mediate some of the biological effects transmitted by the multipotent GTPase.
9148918	A novel phosphotyrosine motif with a critical amino acid at position -2 for the SH2 domain-mediated activation of the tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1.	SHP-1 is a protein-tyrosine phosphatase associated with inhibition of activation pathways in hematopoietic cells. The catalytic activity of SHP-1 is regulated by its two SH2 (Src homology 2) domains; phosphotyrosine peptides that bind to the SH2 domains activate SHP-1. The consensus sequence (I/V)XYXX(L/V) is present in the cytoplasmic tails of several lymphocyte receptors that interact with the second SH2 domain of SHP-1. In several of these receptors, there are two or three occurrences of the motif. Here we show that the conserved hydrophobic amino acid preceding the phosphotyrosine is critical for binding to and activation of SHP-1 by peptides corresponding to sequences from killer cell inhibitory receptors. The interaction of most SH2 domains with phosphopeptides requires only the phosphotyrosine and the three residues downstream of the tyrosine. In contrast, the shortest peptide able to bind or activate SHP-1 also included the two residues upstream of the phosphotyrosine. A biphosphopeptide corresponding to the cytoplasmic tail of a killer cell inhibitory receptor with the potential to interact simultaneously with both SH2 domains of SHP-1 was the most potent activator of SHP-1. The hydrophobic residue upstream of the tyrosine was also critical in the context of the biphosphopeptide. The contribution of a hydrophobic amino acid two residues upstream of the tyrosine in the SHP-1-binding motif may be an important feature that distinguishes inhibitory receptors from those that provide activation signals.
9148966	The SH3 domain of amphiphysin binds the proline-rich domain of dynamin at a single site that defines a new SH3 binding consensus sequence.	Amphiphysin is an SH3 domain-containing neuronal protein that is highly concentrated in nerve terminals where it interacts via its SH3 domain with dynamin I, a GTPase implicated in synaptic vesicle endocytosis. We show here that the SH3 domain of amphiphysin, but not a mutant SH3 domain, bound with high affinity to a single site in the long proline-rich region of human dynamin I, that this site was distinct from the binding sites for other SH3 domains, and that the mutation of two adjacent amino acids in dynamin I was sufficient to abolish binding. The dynamin I sequence critically required for amphiphysin binding (PSRPNR) fits in the novel SH3 binding consensus identified for the SH3 domain of amphiphysin via a combinatorial peptide library approach: PXRPXR(H)R(H). Our data demonstrate that the long proline-rich stretch present in dynamin I contained multiple SH3 domain binding sites that recognize interacting proteins with high specificity.
9150141	The transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB is regulated by the IkappaB-associated PKAc subunit through a cyclic AMP-independent mechanism.	Stimulation of cells with inducers of NF-kappaB such as LPS and IL-1 leads to the degradation of IkappaB-alpha and IkappaB-beta proteins and translocation of NF-kappaB to the nucleus. We now demonstrate that, besides the physical partitioning of inactive NF-kappaB to the cytosol, the transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB is regulated through phosphorylation of NF-kappaB p65 by protein kinase A (PKA). The catalytic subunit of PKA (PKAc) is maintained in an inactive state through association with IkappaB-alpha or IkappaB-beta in an NF-kappaB-IkappaB-PKAc complex. Signals that cause the degradation of IkappaB result in activation of PKAc in a cAMP-independent manner and the subsequent phosphorylation of p65. Therefore, this pathway represents a novel mechanism for the cAMP-independent activation of PKA and the regulation of NF-kappaB activity.
9153224	Raf-1 kinase and exoenzyme S interact with 14-3-3zeta through a common site involving lysine 49.	14-3-3 proteins are a family of conserved dimeric molecules that bind to a range of cellular proteins involved in signal transduction and oncogenesis. Our solution of the crystal structure of 14-3-3zeta revealed a conserved amphipathic groove that may allow the association of 14-3-3 with diverse ligands (Liu, D., Bienkowska, J., Petosa, C., Collier, R. J., Fu, H., and Liddington, R. (1995) Nature 376, 191-194). Here, the contributions of three positively charged residues (Lys-49, Arg-56, and Arg-60) that lie in this Raf-binding groove were investigated. Two of the charge-reversal mutations greatly (K49E) or partially (R56E) decreased the interaction of 14-3-3zeta with Raf-1 kinase, whereas R60E showed only subtle effects on the binding. Interestingly, these mutations exhibited similar effects on the functional interaction of 14-3-3zeta with another target protein, exoenzyme S (ExoS), an ADP-ribosyltransferase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The EC50 values of 14-3-3zeta required for ExoS activation increased by approximately 110-, 5-, and 2-fold for the K49E, R56E, and R60E mutants, respectively. The drastic reduction of 14-3-3zeta/ligand affinity by the K49E mutation is due to a local electrostatic effect, rather than the result of a gross structural alteration, as evidenced by partial proteolysis and circular dichroism analysis. This work identifies the first point mutation (K49E) that dramatically disrupts 14-3-3zeta/ligand interactions. The parallel effects of this single point mutation on both Raf-1 binding and ExoS activation strongly suggest that diverse associated proteins share a common structural binding determinant on 14-3-3zeta.
9153236	Molecular cloning of a novel human CC chemokine EBI1-ligand chemokine that is a specific functional ligand for EBI1, CCR7.	By searching the expressed sequence tag (EST) data base, we identified partial cDNA sequences encoding a novel human CC chemokine. We determined the complete cDNA sequence that encodes a highly basic polypeptide of a total 98 amino acids with 20 to 30% identity to other human CC chemokines. We termed this novel chemokine from EBI1-Ligand Chemokine as ELC (see below). The ELC mRNA was most strongly expressed in the thymus and lymph nodes. Recombinant ELC protein was expressed as a fusion protein with the Flag tag (ELC-Flag). For receptor-binding assays, recombinant ELC protein fused with the secreted form of alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) was used. By stably expressing five CC chemokine receptors (CCR1 to 5) and five orphan receptors, ELC-SEAP was found to bind specifically to an orphan receptor EBI1. Only ELC-Flag, but not MCP-1, MCP-2, MCP-3, eotaxin, MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, RANTES (regulated on activation normal T cell expressed and secreted), thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC), or liver and activation-regulated chemokine (LARC), competed with ELC-SEAP for EBI1. ELC-Flag-induced transient calcium mobilization and chemotactic responses in EBI1-transfected cells. ELC-Flag also induced chemotaxis in HUT78 cells expressing endogenous EBI1 at high levels. By somatic hybrid and radiation hybrid analyses, the gene for ELC (SCYA19) was mapped to chromosome 9p13 instead of chromosome 17q11.2 where the genes for CC chemokines are clustered. Taken together, ELC is a highly specific ligand for EBI1, which is known to be expressed in activated B and T lymphocytes and strongly up-regulated in B cells infected with Epstein-Barr virus and T cells infected with herpesvirus 6 or 7. ELC and EBI1 may thus play roles in migration and homing of normal lymphocytes, as well as in pathophysiology of lymphocytes infected with these herpesviruses. We propose EBI1 to be designated as CCR7.
9154823	Molecular genetic analysis of Rts1p, a B' regulatory subunit of Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein phosphatase 2A.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene RTS1 encodes a protein homologous to a variable B-type regulatory subunit of the mammalian heterotrimeric serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). We present evidence showing that Rts1p assembles into similar heterotrimeric complexes in yeast. Strains in which RTS1 has been disrupted are temperature sensitive (ts) for growth, are hypersensitive to ethanol, are unable to grow with glycerol as their only carbon source, and accumulate at nonpermissive temperatures predominantly as large-budded cells with a 2N DNA content and a nondivided nucleus. This cell cycle arrest can be overcome and partial suppression of the ts phenotype of rts1-null cells occurs if the gene CLB2, encoding a Cdc28 kinase-associated B-type cyclin, is expressed on a high-copy-number plasmid. However, CLB2 overexpression has no suppressive effects on other aspects of the rts1-null phenotype. Expression of truncated forms of Rts1p can also partially suppress the ts phenotype and can fully suppress the inability of cells to grow on glycerol and the hypersensitivity of cells to ethanol. By contrast, the truncated forms do not suppress the accumulation of large-budded cells at high temperatures. Coexpression of truncated Rts1p and high levels of Clb2p fully suppresses the ts phenotype, indicating that the inhibition of growth of rts1-null cells at high temperatures is due to both stress-related and cell cycle-related defects. Genetic analyses show that the role played by Rts1p in PP2A regulation is distinctly different from that played by the other known variable B regulatory subunit, Cdc55p, a protein recently implicated in checkpoint control regulation.
9155017	Mitogen-activated protein kinases activate the serine/threonine kinases Mnk1 and Mnk2.	Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases bind tightly to many of their physiologically relevant substrates. We have identified a new subfamily of murine serine/threonine kinases, whose members, MAP kinase-interacting kinase 1 (Mnk1) and Mnk2, bind tightly to the growth factor-regulated MAP kinases, Erk1 and Erk2. MNK1, but not Mnk2, also binds strongly to the stress-activated kinase, p38. MNK1 complexes more strongly with inactive than active Erk, implying that Mnk and Erk may dissociate after mitogen stimulation. Erk and p38 phosphorylate MNK1 and Mnk2, which stimulates their in vitro kinase activity toward a substrate, eukaryotic initiation factor-4E (eIF-4E). Initiation factor eIF-4E is a regulatory phosphoprotein whose phosphorylation is increased by insulin in an Erk-dependent manner. In vitro, MNK1 rapidly phosphorylates eIF-4E at the physiologically relevant site, Ser209. In cells, Mnk1 is post-translationally modified and enzymatically activated in response to treatment with either peptide growth factors, phorbol esters, anisomycin or UV. Mitogen- and stress-mediated MNK1 activation is blocked by inhibitors of MAP kinase kinase 1 (Mkk1) and p38, demonstrating that Mnk1 is downstream of multiple MAP kinases. MNK1 may define a convergence point between the growth factor-activated and one of the stress-activated protein kinase cascades and is a candidate to phosphorylate eIF-4E in cells.
9159119	BRCA1 is a component of the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme.	The familial breast-ovarian tumor suppressor gene product BRCA1 was found to be a component of the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme by several criteria. BRCA1 was found to copurify with the holoenzyme over multiple chromatographic steps. Other tested transcription activators that could potentially contact the holoenzyme were not stably associated with the holoenzyme as determined by copurification. Antibody specific for the holoenzyme component hSRB7 specifically purifies BRCA1. Immunopurification of BRCA1 complexes also specifically purifies transcriptionally active RNA polymerase II and transcription factors TFIIF, TFIIE, and TFIIH. Moreover, a BRCA1 domain, which is deleted in about 90% of clinically relevant mutations, participates in binding to the holoenzyme complex in cells. These data are consistent with recent data identifying transcription activation domains in the BRCA1 protein and link the BRCA1 tumor suppressor protein with the transcription process as a holoenzyme-bound protein.
9169421	Identification of novel human WW domain-containing proteins by cloning of ligand targets.	A recently described protein module consisting of 35-40 semiconserved residues, termed the WW domain, has been identified in a number of diverse proteins including dystrophin and Yes-associated protein (YAP). Two putative ligands of YAP, termed WBP-1 and WBP-2, have been found previously to contain several short peptide regions consisting of PPPPY residues (PY motif) that mediate binding to the WW domain of YAP. Although the function(s) of the WW domain remain to be elucidated, these observations strongly support a role for the WW domain in protein-protein interactions. Here we report the isolation of three novel human cDNAs encoding a total of nine WW domains, using a newly developed approach termed COLT (cloning of ligand targets), in which the rapid cloning of modular protein domains is accomplished by screening cDNA expression libraries with specific peptide ligands. Two of the new genes identified appear to be members of a family of proteins, including Rsp5 and Nedd-4, which have ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. In addition, we demonstrate that peptides corresponding to PY and PY-like motifs present in several known signaling or regulatory proteins, including RasGAP, AP-2, p53BP-2 (p53-binding protein-2), interleukin-6 receptor-alpha, chloride channel CLCN5, and epithelial sodium channel ENaC, can selectively bind to certain of these novel WW domains.
9169459	Identification of CCR6, the specific receptor for a novel lymphocyte-directed CC chemokine LARC.	Liver and activation-regulated chemokine (LARC) is a recently identified CC chemokine that is expressed mainly in the liver. LARC functions as a selective chemoattractant for lymphocytes that express a class of receptors specifically binding to LARC with high affinity. To identifiy the receptor for LARC, we examined LARC-induced calcium mobilization in cells stably expressing five CC chemokine receptors (CCR1-CCR5) and five orphan seven-transmembrane receptors. LARC specifically induced calcium flux in K562 cells as well as 293/EBNA-1 cells stably expressing an orphan receptor GPR-CY4. LARC induced migration in 293/EBNA-1 cells stably expressing GPR-CY4 with a bi-modal dose-response curve. LARC fused with secreted alkaline phosphatase (LARC-SEAP) bound specifically to Raji cells stably expressing GPR-CY4 with a Kd of 0.9 nM. Only LARC but not five other CC chemokines (MCP-1, RANTES, MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, and TARC) competed with LARC-SEAP for binding to GPR-CY4. By Northern blot analysis, GPR-CY4 mRNA was expressed mainly in spleen, lymph nodes, Appendix, and fetal liver among various human tissues. Among various leukocyte subsets, GPR-CY4 mRNA was detected in lymphocytes (CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells and B cells) but not in natural killer cells, monocytes, or granulocytes. Expression of GPR-CY4 mRNA in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells was strongly up-regulated by IL-2. Taken together, GPR-CY4 is the specific receptor for LARC expressed selectively on lymphocytes, and LARC is a unique functional ligand for GPR-CY4. We propose GPR-CY4 to be designated as CCR6.
9169480	The T cell-directed CC chemokine TARC is a highly specific biological ligand for CC chemokine receptor 4.	Thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) is a recently identified CC chemokine that is expressed constitutively in thymus and transiently in stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells. TARC functions as a selective chemoattractant for T cells that express a class of receptors binding TARC with high affinity and specificity. To identify the receptor for TARC, we produced TARC as a fusion protein with secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) and used it for specific binding. By stably transfecting five orphan receptors and five known CC chemokine receptors (CCR1 to -5) into K562 cells, we found that TARC-SEAP bound selectively to cells expressing CCR4. TARC-SEAP also bound to K562 cells stably expressing CCR4 with a high affinity (Kd = 0.5 nM). Only TARC and not five other CC chemokines (MCP-1 (monocyte chemoattractant protein-1), RANTES (regulated upon activation, normal T cells expressed and secreted), MIP-1alpha (macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha), MIP-1beta, and LARC (liver and activation-regulated chemokine)) competed with TARC-SEAP for binding to CCR4. TARC but not RANTES or MIP-1alpha induced migration and calcium mobilization in 293/EBNA-1 cells stably expressing CCR4. K562 cells stably expressing CCR4 also responded to TARC in a calcium mobilization assay. Northern blot analysis revealed that CCR4 mRNA was expressed strongly in human T cell lines and peripheral blood T cells but not in B cells, natural killer cells, monocytes, or granulocytes. Taken together, TARC is a specific functional ligand for CCR4, and CCR4 is the specific receptor for TARC selectively expressed on T cells.
9171351	FBP WW domains and the Abl SH3 domain bind to a specific class of proline-rich ligands.	WW domains are conserved protein motifs of 38-40 amino acids found in a broad spectrum of proteins. They mediate protein-protein interactions by binding proline-rich modules in ligands. A 10 amino acid proline-rich portion of the morphogenic protein, formin, is bound in vitro by both the WW domain of the formin-binding protein 11 (FBP11) and the SH3 domain of Abl. To explore whether the FBP11 WW domain and Abl SH3 domain bind to similar ligands, we screened a mouse limb bud expression library for putative ligands of the FBP11 WW domain. In so doing, we identified eight ligands (WBP3 through WBP10), each of which contains a proline-rich region or regions. Peptide sequence comparisons of the ligands revealed a conserved motif of 10 amino acids that acts as a modular sequence binding the FBP11 WW domain, but not the WW domain of the putative signal transducing factor, hYAP65. Interestingly, the consensus ligand for the FBP11 WW domain contains residues that are also required for binding by the Abl SH3 domain. These findings support the notion that the FBP11 WW domain and the Abl SH3 domain can compete for the same proline-rich ligands and suggest that at least two subclasses of WW domains exist, namely those that bind a PPLP motif, and those that bind a PPXY motif.
9171381	Delineation of the interaction domains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens VirB7 and VirB9 by use of the yeast two-hybrid assay.	The Agrobacterium tumefaciens VirB proteins are postulated to form a transport pore for the transfer of T-DNA. Formation of the transport pore will involve interactions among the VirB proteins. A powerful genetic method to study protein-protein interaction is the yeast two-hybrid assay. To test whether this method can be used to study interactions among the VirB membrane proteins, we studied the interaction of VirB7 and VirB9 in yeast. We recently demonstrated that VirB7 and VirB9 form a protein complex linked by a disulfide bond between cysteine 24 of VirB7 and cysteine 262 of VirB9 (L. Anderson, A. Hertzel, and A. Das, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93:8889-8894, 1996). We now demonstrate that VirB7 and VirB9 interact in yeast, and this interaction does not require the cysteine residues essential for the disulfide linkage. By using defined segments in fusion constructions, we mapped the VirB7 interaction domain of VirB9 to residues 173 to 275. In tumor formation assays, both virB7C24S and virB9C262S expressed from a multicopy plasmid complemented the respective deletion mutation, indicating that the cysteine residues may not be essential for DNA transfer.
9177165	The 2.1-A crystal structure of an archaeal preinitiation complex: TATA-box-binding protein/transcription factor (II)B core/TATA-box.	Archaea possess a basal transcriptional apparatus that resembles that of eukaryotes. Here we report the 2.1-A crystal structure of the archaeal transcription factor complex formed by the TATA-box-binding protein (TBP), the transcription factor IIB homolog, and a DNA target, all from the hyperthermophile Pyrococcus woesei. The overall fold of these two basal transcription factors is essentially the same as that of their eukaryotic counterparts. However, in comparison with the eukaryotic complexes, the archaeal TBP-DNA interface is more symmetrical, and in this structure the orientation of the preinitiation complex assembly on the promoter is inverted with respect to that seen in all crystal structures of comparable eukaryotic systems. This study of the structural details of an archaeal transcription factor complex presents the opportunity to examine the evolution of the basal eukaryotic transcriptional apparatus from a stereochemical viewpoint and to extend our understanding of the physical biochemistry of transcriptional initiation.
9182572	Eps15 is constitutively oligomerized due to homophilic interaction of its coiled-coil region.	Eps15 is a member of an emerging family of proteins containing a novel protein/protein interaction domain, the EH domain, of as yet unknown function. Recent findings of Eps15 association with clathrin adaptor complex AP-2 and its localization in clathrin-coated pits have implicated Eps15 in the regulation of vesicle trafficking. Here we show that Eps15 exists in several multimeric states in vivo. When purified recombinant Eps15 or lysates of NIH 3T3 cells were treated with cross-linking reagents, covalent dimers of Eps15 and larger covalent multimers were detected in high yield. Large Eps15 oligomers co-immunoprecipitated with AP-2 at an efficiency higher than that of Eps15 dimers. Furthermore, cross-linking of the membrane-bound fraction of Eps15 in mildly permeabilized cells was as efficient as that of the cytosolic fraction. Size-exclusion column chromatography of recombinantly produced Eps15 and of total cell lysates was performed to examine the equilibrium ratio of the monomers versus the aggregated forms of Eps15. These experiments showed that essentially all the Eps15 was aggregated, whereas monomers of Eps15 could be obtained only under strong denaturing conditions. To map the region of Eps15 responsible for dimerization, fusion proteins corresponding to the three structural domains of Eps15 were prepared. Cross-linking analysis revealed that the central portion of Eps15, which possesses a coiled-coil region (residues 321-520), serves as the interacting interface. The possibility that hetero-oligomeric complexes of Eps15 dimers and AP-2 function during the recruitment of proteins into coated pits is discussed.
9188467	Dimerization is essential for DNA binding and repression by the ArsR metalloregulatory protein of Escherichia coli.	Arsenical resistance (ars) operons produce resistance to trivalent and pentavalent salts of the metalloids arsenic and antimony in cells of Escherichia coli. The first gene in the operon, arsR, was previously shown to encode a homodimeric trans-acting metalloregulatory repressor protein. Dimerization of ArsR was investigated using the yeast two-hybrid system in which the ArsR protein was fused to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae GAL4 DNA-binding domain and GAL4 activation domain to produce chimeric proteins. Transcriptional activation of lacZ reporter indicated that dimerization of the ArsR is stable in yeast. The results indicated that residues 1-8 and 90-117 are not required for ArsR dimerization. The genes for a series of truncated ArsR proteins containing six histidine tags were constructed and the proteins purified. The mass of each recombinant protein, as determined by size exclusion chromatography, was consistent with the results from two-hybrid analysis. The results of beta-galactosidase assays in vivo and gel mobility shift assays in vitro showed that dimers retained the ability to bind to the ars promoter and to respond to inducer, whereas monomeric ArsRs did neither. These results suggest that a core sequence of about 80 residues has all of the information necessary for dimerization, repression, and metal recognition.
9188637	Simian virus 40 T antigen can regulate p53-mediated transcription independent of binding p53.	A simian virus 40 (SV40) T-antigen mutant containing only the N-terminal 136 amino acids, able to bind to Rb and p300 but not p53, partially inhibited p53-mediated transcription without affecting the ability of p53 to bind DNA. These results suggest that SV40 T antigen can regulate p53-mediated transcription either directly through protein-protein association or indirectly through interaction with factors which may function to confer p53-mediated transcription.
9190214	Evidence for physical and functional interactions among two Saccharomyces cerevisiae SH3 domain proteins, an adenylyl cyclase-associated protein and the actin cytoskeleton.	In a variety of organisms, a number of proteins associated with the cortical actin cytoskeleton contain SH3 domains, suggesting that these domains may provide the physical basis for functional interactions among structural and regulatory proteins in the actin cytoskeleton. We present evidence that SH3 domains mediate at least two independent functions of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae actin-binding protein Abp1p in vivo. Abp1p contains a single SH3 domain that has recently been shown to bind in vitro to the adenylyl cyclase-associated protein Srv2p. Immunofluorescence analysis of Srv2p subcellular localization in strains carrying mutations in either ABP1 or SRV2 reveals that the Abp1p SH3 domain mediates the normal association of Srv2p with the cortical actin cytoskeleton. We also show that a site in Abp1p itself is specifically bound by the SH3 domain of the actin-associated protein Rvs167p. Genetic analysis provides evidence that Abp1p and Rvs167p have functions that are closely interrelated. Abp1 null mutations, like rvs167 mutations, result in defects in sporulation and reduced viability under certain suboptimal growth conditions. In addition, mutations in ABP1 and RVS167 yield similar profiles of genetic "synthetic lethal" interactions when combined with mutations in genes encoding other cytoskeletal components. Mutations which specifically disrupt the SH3 domain-mediated interaction between Abp1p and Srv2p, however, show none of the shared phenotypes of abp1 and rvs167 mutations. We conclude that the Abp1p SH3 domain mediates the association of Srv2p with the cortical actin cytoskeleton, and that Abp1p performs a distinct function that is likely to involve binding by the Rvs167p SH3 domain. Overall, work presented here illustrates how SH3 domains can integrate the activities of multiple actin cytoskeleton proteins in response to varying environmental conditions.
9192623	Binding of human virus oncoproteins to hDlg/SAP97, a mammalian homolog of the Drosophila discs large tumor suppressor protein.	The 9ORF1 gene encodes an adenovirus E4 region oncoprotein that requires a C-terminal region for transforming activity. Screening a lambdagt11 cDNA expression library with a 9ORF1 protein probe yielded a novel cellular PDZ domain-containing protein, 9BP-1, which binds to wild-type, but not a transformation-defective, C-terminal, mutant 9ORF1 protein. The fact that PDZ domains complex with specific sequences at the free C-terminal end of some proteins led to the recognition that the 9ORF1 C-terminal region contained such a consensus-binding motif. This discovery prompted investigations into whether the 9ORF1 protein associates with additional cellular proteins having PDZ domains. It was found that the 9ORF1 protein interacts directly, in vitro and in vivo, with the PDZ domain-containing protein hDlg/SAP97 (DLG), which is a mammalian homolog of the Drosophila discs large tumor suppressor protein and which also binds the adenomatous polyposis coli tumor suppressor protein. Of interest, in forming complexes, the 9ORF1 protein preferentially associated with the second PDZ domain of DLG, similar to adenomatous polyposis coli protein. Human T cell leukemia virus type 1 Tax and most oncogenic human papillomavirus E6 oncoproteins also possessed PDZ domain-binding motifs at their C termini and, significantly, human T cell leukemia virus type 1 Tax and human papillomavirus 18 E6 proteins bound DLG in vitro. Considering the requirement of the 9ORF1 C-terminal region in transformation, these findings suggest that interactions with the cellular factor DLG may contribute to the tumorigenic potentials of several different human virus oncoproteins.
9194697	Structural analysis of the subunits of the trehalose-6-phosphate synthase/phosphatase complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and their function during heat shock.	Synthesis of trehalose in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is catalysed by the trehalose-6-phosphate (Tre6P) synthase/phosphatase complex, which is composed of at least three different subunits encoded by the genes TPS1, TPS2, and TSL1. Previous studies indicated that Tps1 and Tps2 carry the catalytic activities of trehalose synthesis, namely Tre6P synthase (Tps1) and Tre6P phosphatase (Tps2), while TsI1 was suggested to have regulatory functions. In this study two different approaches have been used to clarify the molecular composition of the trehalose synthase complex as well as the functional role of its potential subunits. Two-hybrid analyses of the in vivo interactions of Tps1, Tps2, TsI1, and Tps3, a protein with high homology to TsI1, revealed that both TsI1 and Tps3 can interact with Tps1 and Tps2; the latter two proteins also interact with each other. In addition, trehalose metabolism upon heat shock was analysed in a set of 16 isogenic yeast strains carrying deletions of TPS1, TPS2, TSL1, and TPS3 in all possible combinations. These results not only confirm the previously suggested roles for Tps1 and Tps2, but also provide, for the first time, evidence that TsI1 and Tps3 may share a common function with respect to regulation and/or structural stabilization of the Tre6P synthase/phosphatase complex in exponentially growing, heat-shocked cells.
9195926	Translation initiation factors eIF-iso4G and eIF-4B interact with the poly(A)-binding protein and increase its RNA binding activity.	The 5'-cap and the poly(A) tail act synergistically to increase the translational efficiency of eukaryotic mRNAs, which suggests that these two mRNA elements communicate during translation. We report here that the cap-associated eukaryotic initiation factors (eIFs), i. e. the two isoforms of the cap-binding complex (eIF-4F and eIF-iso4F) and eIF-4B, bind to the poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) both in the presence and absence of poly(A) RNA. The interactions between PABP and eIF-4F, eIF-iso4F, and eIF-4B were measured in the absence of poly(A) RNA using far Western analysis and confirmed by direct fluorescence titration studies. The functional consequence of the interaction between these initiation factors and PABP was examined using RNA binding assays and RNA mobility shift analysis. eIF-4F, eIF-iso4F, and eIF-4B promoted PABP activity through a shift in its equilibrium affinity for poly(A). eIF-iso4G, the large subunit of eIF-iso4F, was the subunit responsible for the interaction between eIF-iso4F and PABP and was the subunit that promoted PABP RNA binding activity. Truncation analysis of eIF-iso4G indicated that a domain close to its N-terminal end appeared to be involved in binding PABP. These results suggest that the interaction between PABP and eIF-4B and eIF-iso4G may be involved in mediating the functional co-dependence observed between the cap and the poly(A) tail during translation.
9202023	Characterization of the WW domain of human yes-associated protein and its polyproline-containing ligands.	We had previously identified the WW domain as a novel globular domain that is composed of 38-40 semiconserved amino acids and is involved in mediating protein-protein interaction. The WW domain is shared by proteins of diverse functions including structural, regulatory, and signaling proteins in yeast, nematode, and mammals. Functionally it is similar to the Src homology 3 domain in that it binds polyproline ligands. By screening a 16-day mouse embryo expression library, we identified two putative ligands of the WW domain of Yes kinase-associated protein which we named WW domain-binding proteins 1 and 2. These proteins interacted with the WW domain via a short proline-rich motif with the consensus sequence of four consecutive prolines followed by a tyrosine. Herein, we report the cDNA cloning and characterization of the human orthologs of WW domain-binding proteins 1 and 2. The products encoded by these cDNA clones represent novel proteins with no known function. Furthermore, these proteins show no homology to each other except for a proline-rich motif. By fluorescence in situ hybridization on human metaphase chromosomes, we mapped the human genes for WW domain-binding proteins 1 and 2 to chromosomes 2p12 and 17q25, respectively. In addition, using site-directed mutagenesis, we determined which residues in the WW domain of Yes kinase-associated protein are critical for binding. Finally, by synthesizing peptides in which the various positions of the four consecutive proline-tyrosine motif and the five surrounding residues were replaced by all possible amino acid residues, we further elucidated the binding requirements of this motif.
9204908	Phosphorylation of the translational repressor PHAS-I by the mammalian target of rapamycin.	The immunosuppressant rapamycin interferes with G1-phase progression in lymphoid and other cell types by inhibiting the function of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). mTOR was determined to be a terminal kinase in a signaling pathway that couples mitogenic stimulation to the phosphorylation of the eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF)-4E-binding protein, PHAS-I. The rapamycin-sensitive protein kinase activity of mTOR was required for phosphorylation of PHAS-I in insulin-stimulated human embryonic kidney cells. mTOR phosphorylated PHAS-I on serine and threonine residues in vitro, and these modifications inhibited the binding of PHAS-I to eIF-4E. These studies define a role for mTOR in translational control and offer further insights into the mechanism whereby rapamycin inhibits G1-phase progression in mammalian cells.
9207062	Interaction of human apurinic endonuclease and DNA polymerase beta in the base excision repair pathway.	Mutagenic abasic (AP) sites are generated directly by DNA-damaging agents or by DNA glycosylases acting in base excision repair. AP sites are corrected via incision by AP endonucleases, removal of deoxyribose 5-phosphate, repair synthesis, and ligation. Mammalian DNA polymerase beta (Polbeta) carries out most base excision repair synthesis and also can excise deoxyribose 5-phosphate after AP endonuclease incision. Yeast two-hybrid analysis now indicates protein-protein contact between Polbeta and human AP endonuclease (Ape protein). In vitro, binding of Ape protein to uncleaved AP sites loads Polbeta into a ternary complex with Ape and the AP-DNA. After incision by Ape, only Polbeta exhibits stable DNA binding. Kinetic experiments indicated that Ape accelerates the excision of 5'-terminal deoxyribose 5-phosphate by Polbeta. Thus, the two central players of the base excision repair pathway are coordinated in sequential reactions.
9207119	Cloning of a novel T-cell protein FYB that binds FYN and SH2-domain-containing leukocyte protein 76 and modulates interleukin 2 production.	T cell receptor zeta (TcRzeta)/CD3 ligation initiates a signaling cascade that involves src kinases p56(lck) and zeta-associated protein 70, leading to the phosphorylation of substrates such as TcRzeta, Vav, SH2-domain-containing leukocyte protein 76 (SLP-76), cbl, and p120/130. FYN binding protein (FYB or p120/130) associates with p59(fyn), the TcRzeta/CD3 complex, and becomes tyrosine-phosphorylated in response to receptor ligation. In this study, we report the cDNA cloning of human and murine FYB and show that it is restricted in expression to T cells and myeloid cells and possesses an overall unique hydrophilic sequence with several tyrosine-based motifs, proline-based type I and type II SH3 domain binding motifs, several putative lysine/glutamic acid-rich nuclear localization motifs, and a SH3-like domain. In addition to binding the src kinase p59(fyn), FYB binds specifically to the hematopoietic signaling protein SLP-76, an interaction mediated by the SLP-76 SH2 domain. In keeping with this, expression of FYB augmented interleukin 2 secretion from a T cell hybridoma, DC27.10, in response to TcRzeta/CD3 ligation. FYB is therefore a novel hematopoietic protein that acts as a component of the FYN and SLP-76 signaling cascades in T cells.
9207794	Toward a functional analysis of the yeast genome through exhaustive two-hybrid screens.	The genome of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is now completely sequenced. Despite successful genetic work in recent years, 60% of yeast genes have no assigned function and half of those encode putative proteins without any homology with known proteins. Genetic analyses, such as suppressor or synthetic lethal screens, have suggested many functional links between gene products, some of which have been confirmed by biochemical means. Altogether, these approaches have led to a fairly extensive knowledge of defined biochemical pathways. However, the integration of these pathways against the background of complexity in a living cell remains to be accomplished. The two-hybrid method applied to the yeast genome might allow the characterization to the network of interactions between yeast proteins, leading to a better understanding of cellular functions. Such an analysis has been performed for the bacteriophage T7 genome that encodes 55 proteins and for Drosophila cell cycle regulators. However, the currently available two-hybrid methodology is not suitable for a large-scale project without specific methodological improvements In particular, the exhaustivity and selectivity of the screens must first be greatly improved. We constructed a new yeast genomic library and developed a highly selective two-hybrid procedure adapted for exhaustive screens of the yeast genome. For each bait we selected a limited set of interacting preys that we classified in categories of distinct heuristic values. Taking into account this classification, new baits were chosen among preys and, in turn, used for second-round screens. Repeating this procedure several times led to the characterization of the network of interactions. Using known pre-mRNA splicing factors as initial baits, we were able to characterize new interactions between known splicing factors, identify new yeast splicing factors, including homologues of human SF1 and SAP49, and reveal novel potential functional links between cellular pathways. Using different cellular pathways as anchor points, this novel strategy allows us to envision the building of an interaction map of the yeast proteome. In addition, this two-hybrid strategy could be applied to other genomes and might help to resolve the human protein linkage map.
9214386	Control of mitotic events by Nap1 and the Gin4 kinase.	Little is known about the pathways used by cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases to induce the events of the cell cycle. In budding yeast, a protein called Nap1 binds to the mitotic cyclin Clb2, and Nap1 is required for the ability of Clb2 to induce specific mitotic events, but the role played by Nap1 is unclear. We have used genetic and biochemical approaches to identify additional proteins that function with Nap1 in the control of mitotic events. These approaches have both identified a protein kinase called Gin4 that is required for the ability of Clb2 and Nap1 to promote the switch from polar to isotropic bud growth that normally occurs during mitosis. Gin4 is also required for the ability of Clb2 and Nap1 to promote normal progression through mitosis. The Gin4 protein becomes phosphorylated as cells enter mitosis, resulting in the activation of Gin4 kinase activity, and the phosphorylation of Gin4 is dependent upon Nap1 and Clb2 in vivo. Affinity chromatography experiments demonstrate that Gin4 binds tightly to Nap1, indicating that the functions of these two proteins are closely tied within the cell. These results demonstrate that the activation of Gin4 is under the control of Clb2 and Nap1, and they provide an important step towards elucidating the molecular pathways that link cyclin-dependent kinases to the events they control.
9215628	14-3-3 proteins are essential for RAS/MAPK cascade signaling during pseudohyphal development in S. cerevisiae.	14-3-3 proteins are highly conserved ubiquitous proteins whose explicit functions have remained elusive. Here, we show that the S. cerevisiae 14-3-3 homologs BMH1 and BMH2 are not essential for viability or mating MAPK cascade signaling, but they are essential for pseudohyphal-development MAPK cascade signaling and other processes. Activated alleles of RAS2 and CDC42 induce pseudohyphal development and FG(TyA)-lacZ signaling in Bmh+ strains but not in ste20 (p65PAK) or bmh1 bmh2 mutant strains. Moreover, Bmh1p and Bmh2p associate with Ste20p in vivo. Three alleles of BMH1 encode proteins defective for FG(TyA)-lacZ signaling and association with Ste20p, yet these alleles complement other 14-3-3 functions. Therefore, the 14-3-3 proteins are specifically required for RAS/MAPK cascade signaling during pseudohyphal development in S. cerevisiae.
9219684	The Ras-RasGAP complex: structural basis for GTPase activation and its loss in oncogenic Ras mutants.	The three-dimensional structure of the complex between human H-Ras bound to guanosine diphosphate and the guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase)-activating domain of the human GTPase-activating protein p120GAP (GAP-334) in the presence of aluminum fluoride was solved at a resolution of 2.5 angstroms. The structure shows the partly hydrophilic and partly hydrophobic nature of the communication between the two molecules, which explains the sensitivity of the interaction toward both salts and lipids. An arginine side chain (arginine-789) of GAP-334 is supplied into the active site of Ras to neutralize developing charges in the transition state. The switch II region of Ras is stabilized by GAP-334, thus allowing glutamine-61 of Ras, mutation of which activates the oncogenic potential, to participate in catalysis. The structural arrangement in the active site is consistent with a mostly associative mechanism of phosphoryl transfer and provides an explanation for the activation of Ras by glycine-12 and glutamine-61 mutations. Glycine-12 in the transition state mimic is within van der Waals distance of both arginine-789 of GAP-334 and glutamine-61 of Ras, and even its mutation to alanine would disturb the arrangements of residues in the transition state.
9221768	Characterization of guanylate kinase-associated protein, a postsynaptic density protein at excitatory synapses that interacts directly with postsynaptic density-95/synapse-associated protein 90.	The structure of central synapses is poorly understood at the molecular level. A recent advance came with the identification of the postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95)/synapse-associated protein 90 family of proteins as important mediators of the synaptic clustering of certain classes of ion channels. By yeast two-hybrid screening, a novel protein termed guanylate kinase-associated protein (GKAP) has been isolated that binds to the GK-like domain of PSD-95 (). Here we present a detailed characterization of GKAP expression in the rat brain and report the cloning of a novel GKAP splice variant. By Northern blot, GKAP mRNAs (4, 6.5, and 8 kB) are expressed predominantly in the rat brain. By in situ hybridization, GKAP is expressed widely in neurons of cortex and hippocampus and in the Purkinje and granule cells of the cerebellum. On brain immunoblots, two prominent bands of 95 and 130 kDa are detected that correspond to products of short and long N-terminal splice variants of GKAP. Two independent GKAP antibodies label somatodendritic puncta in neocortical and hippocampal neurons in a pattern consistent with synaptic elements. Immunogold electron microscopy reveals GKAP to be predominantly postsynaptic and present at asymmetric synapses and in dendritic spines. The distribution of GKAP immunogold particles is uniform in the lateral plane of the PSD but peaks in the perpendicular axis approximately 20 nm from the postsynaptic membrane. In cultured hippocampal neurons GKAP immunoreactive puncta colocalize with the AMPA receptor subunit Glu receptor 1 but not with the GABAA receptor subunits beta2 and beta3. Thus GKAP is a widely expressed neuronal protein localized specifically in the PSD of glutamatergic synapses, consistent with its direct interaction with PSD-95 family proteins.
9223484	Two classes of human papillomavirus type 16 E1 mutants suggest pleiotropic conformational constraints affecting E1 multimerization, E2 interaction, and interaction with cellular proteins.	Random mutagenesis of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) E1 was used to generate E1 missense mutants defective for interaction with either hUBC9 or 16E1-BP, two cDNAs encoding proteins that have been identified by their ability to interact with HPV16 E1 in two-hybrid assays. hUBC9, the human counterpart of Saccharomyces cerevisiae UBC9, is a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme known to be involved in cell cycle progression. 16E1-BP encodes a protein of no known function but does contain an ATPase signature motif. Eight hUBC9 or 16E1-BP interaction-defective HPV16 E1 missense mutants were identified and characterized for origin-dependent transient DNA replication, ATPase activity, and various protein-protein interaction phenotypes. Six of these mutant E1 proteins were significantly impaired for replication. Among these, two classes of replication-defective HPV16 E1 missense mutants were observed. One class, represented by the S330R replication-defective mutant (containing an S-to-R change at position 330), remained competent for all protein-protein interactions tested, with the exception of hUBC9 association. Furthermore, this mutant, unlike the other replication-defective HPV16 E1 missense mutants, had a strong dominant negative replication phenotype in transient-replication assays. The other class, represented by five of the missense mutants, was defective for multiple protein-protein interactions, usually including, but not limited to, the interaction defect for which each mutant was originally selected. In many cases, a single missense mutation in one region of HPV16 E1 had pleiotropic effects, even upon activities thought to be associated with other domains of HPV16 E1. This suggests that E1 proteins are not modular but may instead be composed of multiple structurally and/or functionally interdependent domains.
9234743	Identification of AUF1 (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein D) as a component of the alpha-globin mRNA stability complex.	mRNA turnover is an important regulatory component of gene expression and is significantly influenced by ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes which form on the mRNA. Studies of human alpha-globin mRNA stability have identified a specific RNP complex (alpha-complex) which forms on the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of the mRNA and appears to regulate the erythrocyte-specific accumulation of alpha-globin mRNA. One of the protein activities in this multiprotein complex is a poly(C)-binding activity which consists of two proteins, alphaCP1 and alphaCP2. Neither of these proteins, individually or as a pair, can bind the alpha-globin 3'UTR unless they are complexed with the remaining non-poly(C) binding proteins of the alpha-complex. With the yeast two-hybrid screen, a second alpha-complex protein was identified. This protein is a member of the previously identified A+U-rich (ARE) binding/degradation factor (AUF1) family of proteins, which are also known as the heterogeneous nuclear RNP (hnRNP) D proteins. We refer to these proteins as AUF1/hnRNP-D. Thus, a protein implicated in ARE-mediated mRNA decay is also an integral component of the mRNA stabilizing alpha-complex. The interaction of AUF1/hnRNP-D is more efficient with alphaCP1 relative to alphaCP2 both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that the alpha-complex might be dynamic rather than a fixed complex. AUF1/hnRNP-D could, therefore, be a general mRNA turnover factor involved in both stabilization and decay of mRNA.
9238017	The SH3p4/Sh3p8/SH3p13 protein family: binding partners for synaptojanin and dynamin via a Grb2-like Src homology 3 domain.	The GTPase dynamin I and the inositol 5-phosphatase synaptojanin are nerve terminal proteins implicated in synaptic vesicle recycling. Both proteins contain COOH-terminal proline-rich domains that can interact with a variety of Src homology 3 (SH3) domains. A major physiological binding partner for dynamin I and synaptojanin in the nervous system is amphiphysin I, an SH3 domain-containing protein also concentrated in nerve terminals. We have used the proline-rich tail of synaptojanin to screen a rat brain library by the two-hybrid method to identify additional interacting partners of synaptojanin. Three related proteins containing SH3 domains that are closely related to the SH3 domains of Grb2 were isolated: SH3p4, SH3p8, and SH3p13. Further biochemical studies demonstrated that the SH3p4/8/13 proteins bind to both synaptojanin and dynamin I. The SH3p4/8/13 transcripts are differentially expressed in tissues: SH3p4 mRNA was detected only in brain, SH3p13 mRNA was present in brain and testis, and the SH3p8 transcript was detected at similar levels in multiple tissues. Members of the SH3p4/8/13 protein family were found to be concentrated in nerve terminals, and pools of synaptojanin and dynamin I were coprecipitated from brain extracts with antibodies recognizing SH3p4/8/13. These findings underscore the important role of SH3-mediated interactions in synaptic vesicle recycling.
9242378	Association of the Rho family small GTP-binding proteins with Rho GDP dissociation inhibitor (Rho GDI) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The small GTP-binding proteins of the Rho family, consisting of the Rho, Rac, and Cdc42 subfamilies, are implicated in various cell functions, such as cell shape change, cell motility and cytokinesis, through reorganization of actin cytoskeleton. Rho GDI is a general regulator which forms a complex with the GDP-bound inactive form of the Rho family members and inhibits their activation. We have purified Rho GDI from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, cloned its gene, and named it RDII (Rho GD). In this study, we have further characterized yeast Rho GDI. Rho GDI was found in the cytosol by immunoblot and immunofluorescence microscopic analyses. Rho1p and Cdc42p were co-immunoprecipitated with Rho GDI from the cytosol. This immunoprecipitated Rho1p was mainly bound to GDP. In the disruption mutant of Rho GDI, which did not show any apparent phenotype, both Rho1p and Cdc42p were also present in the cytosol. These results indicate that yeast Rho GDI possesses properties similar to those of mammalian Rho GDI, and that there is a cytosolic factor which functionally substitutes for Rho GDI in yeast.
9242535	The Fanconi anemia polypeptide, FAC, binds to the cyclin-dependent kinase, cdc2.	Fanconi anemia (FA) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by developmental defects, bone marrow failure, and cancer susceptibility. Cells derived from FA patients are sensitive to crosslinking agents and have a prolonged G2 phase, suggesting a cell cycle abnormality. Although transfection of type-C FA cells with the FAC cDNA corrects these cellular abnormalities, the molecular function of the FAC polypeptide remains unknown. In the current study we show that expression of the FAC polypeptide is regulated during cell cycle progression. In synchronized HeLa cells, FAC protein expression increased during S phase, was maximal at the G2/M transition, and declined during M phase. In addition, the FAC protein coimmunoprecipitated with the cyclin-dependent kinase, cdc2. We next tested various mutant forms of the FAC polypeptide for binding to cdc2. A patient-derived mutant FAC polypeptide, containing a point mutation at L554P, failed to bind to cdc2. The FAC/cdc2 binding interaction therefore correlated with the functional activity of the FAC protein. Moreover, binding of FAC to cdc2 was mediated by the carboxyl-terminal 50 amino acids of FAC in a region of the protein required for FAC function. Taken together, our results suggest that the binding of FAC and cdc2 is required for normal G2/M progression in mammalian cells. Absence of a functional interaction between FAC and cdc2 in FA cells may underlie the cell cycle abnormality and clinical abnormalities of FA.
9242638	Differential interactions of Id proteins with basic-helix-loop-helix transcription factors.	Dimerization of three Id proteins (Id1, Id2, and Id3) with the four class A E proteins (E12, E47, E2-2, and HEB) and two groups of class B proteins, the myogenic regulatory factors (MRFs: MyoD, myogenin, Myf-5 and MRF4/Myf-6), and the hematopoietic factors (Scl/Tal-1, Tal-2, and Lyl-1) were tested in a quantitative yeast 2-hybrid assay. All three Ids bound with high affinity to E proteins, but a much broader range of interactions was observed between Ids and the class B factors. Id1 and Id2 interacted strongly with MyoD and Myf-5 and weakly with myogenin and MRF4/Myf-6, whereas Id3 interacted weakly with all four MRFs. Similar specificities were observed in co-immunoprecipitation and mammalian 2-hybrid analyses. No interactions were found between the Ids and any of the hematopoietic factors. Each Id was able to disrupt the ability of E protein-MyoD complexes to transactivate from a muscle creatine kinase reporter construct in vivo. Finally, mutagenesis experiments showed that the differences between Id1 and Id3 binding map to three amino acids in the first helix and to a small cluster of upstream residues. The Id proteins thus display a signature range of interactions with all of their potential dimerization partners and may play a role in myogenesis which is distinct from that in hematopoiesis.
9242660	The three-dimensional structure of recombinant leech-derived tryptase inhibitor in complex with trypsin. Implications for the structure of human mast cell tryptase and its inhibition.	The x-ray crystal structure of recombinant leech-derived tryptase inhibitor (rLDTI) has been solved to a resolution of 1.9 A in complex with porcine trypsin. The nonclassical Kazal-type inhibitor exhibits the same overall architecture as that observed in solution and in rhodniin. The complex reveals structural aspects of the mast cell proteinase tryptase. The conformation of the binding region of rLDTI suggests that tryptase has a restricted active site cleft. The basic amino terminus of rLDTI, apparently flexible from previous NMR measurements, approaches the 148-loop of trypsin. This loop has an acidic equivalent in tryptase, suggesting that the basic amino terminus could make favorable electrostatic interactions with the tryptase molecule. A series of rLDTI variants constructed to probe this hypothesis confirmed that the amino-terminal Lys-Lys sequence plays a role in inhibition of human lung tryptase but not of trypsin or chymotrypsin. The location of such an acidic surface patch is in accordance with the known low molecular weight inhibitors of tryptase.
9244350	BRCA1 proteins are transported to the nucleus in the absence of serum and splice variants BRCA1a, BRCA1b are tyrosine phosphoproteins that associate with E2F, cyclins and cyclin dependent kinases.	BRCA1, a familial breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene encodes nuclear phosphoproteins that function as tumor suppressors in human breast cancer cells. Previously, we have shown that overexpression of a BRCA1 splice variant BRCA1a accelerates apoptosis in human breast cancer cells. In an attempt to determine whether the subcellular localization of BRCA1 is cell cycle regulated, we have studied the subcellular distribution of BRCA1 in asynchronous and growth arrested normal, breast and ovarian cancer cells using different BRCA1 antibodies by immunofluorescence and immunohistochemical staining. Upon serum starvation of NIH3T3, some breast and ovarian cancer cells, most of the BRCA1 protein redistributed to the nucleus revealing a new type of regulation that may modulate the activity of BRCA1 gene. We have also characterized two new variant BRCA1 proteins (BRCA1a/p110 and BRCA1b/ p100) which are phosphoproteins containing phosphotyrosine. Immunofluorescence and Western blotting analysis indicate cytoplasmic and nuclear localization of BRCA1a and BRCA1b proteins. To elucidate the biological function of BRCA1, we created a bacterial fusion protein of glutathione-transferase (GST) and BRCA1 zinc finger domain and detected two cellular proteins with molecular weights of approximately 32 and 65 kD, one of which contains phosphotyrosine designated p32 and p65 BRCA1 interacting proteins (BIP) that specifically interact with BRCA1. Western blot analysis of BIP with cyclins/CDKs and E2F antisera indicated association with cdc2, cdk2, cdk4, cyclin B, cyclin D, cyclin A and E2F-4 but not with cdk3, cdk5, cdk6, E2F-1, E2F-2, E2F-3, E2F-5 and cyclin E. Furthermore, we have also demonstrated a direct interaction of in vitro translated BRCA1a and BRCA1b proteins with recombinant cyclin A, cyclin B1, cyclin D1, cdc2, cdk2 and E2F fusion proteins in vitro. Taken together these results seem to suggest that BRCA1 could be an important negative regulator of cell cycle that functions through interaction with E2F transcriptional factors and phosphorylation by cyclins/cdk complexes with the zinc ring finger functioning as a major protein-protein interaction domain. If the interactions we observe in vitro is also seen in vivo then it may be possible that lack or impaired binding of the disrupted BRCA1 proteins to E2F, cyclins/CDKs in patients with mutations in the zinc finger domain could deprive the cell of an important mechanism for braking cell proliferation leading to the development of breast and ovarian cancers.
9257699	Interaction of Fas(Apo-1/CD95) with proteins implicated in the ubiquitination pathway.	Fas(Apo-1/CD95), a receptor belonging to the tumor necrosis factor receptor family, induces apoptosis when triggered by Fas ligand. Upon its activation, the cytoplasmic domain of Fas binds several proteins which transmit the death signal. We used the yeast two-hybrid screen to isolate Fas-associated proteins. Here we report that the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UBC9 binds to Fas at the interface between the death domain and the membrane-proximal region of Fas. This interaction is also seen in vivo. UBC9 transiently expressed in HeLa cells bound to the co-expressed cytoplasmic segment of Fas. FAF1, a Fas-associated protein that potentiates apoptosis (Chu et al. (1996) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92, 11894-11898), was found to contain sequences similar to ubiquitin. These results suggest that proteins related to the ubiquitination pathway may modulate the Fas signaling pathway.
9261073	The crystal structure of the nucleotide-free alpha 3 beta 3 subcomplex of F1-ATPase from the thermophilic Bacillus PS3 is a symmetric trimer.	BACKGROUND: F1-ATPase, an oligomeric assembly with subunit stoichiometry alpha 3 beta 3 gamma delta epsilon, is the catalytic component of the ATP synthase complex, which plays a central role in energy transduction in bacteria, chloroplasts and mitochondria. The crystal structure of bovine mitochondrial F1-ATPase displays a marked asymmetry in the conformation and nucleotide content of the catalytic beta subunits. The alpha 3 beta 3 subcomplex of F1-ATPase has been assembled from subunits of the moderately thermophilic Bacillus PS3 made in Escherichia coli, and the subcomplex is active but does not show the catalytic cooperativity of intact F1-ATPase. The structure of this subcomplex should provide new information on the conformational variability of F1-ATPase and may provide insights into the unusual catalytic mechanism employed by this enzyme. RESULTS: The crystal structure of the nucleotide-free bacterial alpha 3 beta 3 subcomplex of F1-ATPase, determined at 3.2 A resolution, shows that the oligomer has exact threefold symmetry. The bacterial beta subunits adopt a conformation essentially identical to that of the nucleotide-free beta subunit in mitochondrial F1-ATPase; the alpha subunits have similar conformations in both structures. CONCLUSIONS: The structures of the bacterial F1-ATPase alpha and beta subunits are very similar to their counterparts in the mitochondrial enzyme, suggesting a common catalytic mechanism. The study presented here allows an analysis of the different conformations adopted by the alpha and beta subunits and may ultimately further our understanding of this mechanism.
9261364	The hepatitis C virus NS4A protein: interactions with the NS4B and NS5A proteins.	Hepatitis C virus encodes a large polyprotein precursor that is proteolytically processed into at least 10 distinct products, in the order NH2-C-E1-E2-p7-NS2-NS3-NS4A-NS4B-NS5A-NS5B -COOH. A serine proteinase encoded in the N-terminal 181 residues of the NS3 nonstructural protein is responsible for cleavage at four sites (3/4A, 4A/4B, 4B/5A, and 5A/5B) in the nonstructural region. NS4A, a 54-residue nonstructural protein which forms a stable complex with the NS3 proteinase, is required as a cofactor for cleavage at the 3/4A and 4B/5A sites and enhances processing at the 4A/4B and 5A/5B sites. Recently reported crystal structures demonstrated that NS4A forms an integral part of the NS3 serine proteinase. In this report, we present evidence that NS4A forms a nonionic-detergent-stable complex with the NS4B5A polyprotein substrate, which may explain the requirement of NS4A for the 4B/5A cleavage. Isoleucine-29 of NS4A, which has been previously shown to be essential for its proteinase cofactor activity and formation of the NS3 complex, was found to be important for the interaction between NS4A and the NS4B5A substrate. In addition, two more hydrophobic residues in the NS4A central region (valine-23 and isoleucine-25) were also shown to be essential for the cofactor activity and for the interaction with either the NS3 proteinase or the NS4B5A polyprotein substrate. Finally, the possible mechanisms by which these viral proteins interact with each other are discussed.
9267021	Apaf-1, a human protein homologous to C. elegans CED-4, participates in cytochrome c-dependent activation of caspase-3.	We report here the purification and cDNA cloning of Apaf-1, a novel 130 kd protein from HeLa cell cytosol that participates in the cytochrome c-dependent activation of caspase-3. The NH2-terminal 85 amino acids of Apaf-1 show 21% identity and 53% similarity to the NH2-terminal prodomain of the Caenorhabditis elegans caspase, CED-3. This is followed by 320 amino acids that show 22% identity and 48% similarity to CED-4, a protein that is believed to initiate apoptosis in C. elegans. The COOH-terminal region of Apaf-1 comprises multiple WD repeats, which are proposed to mediate protein-protein interactions. Cytochrome c binds to Apaf-1, an event that may trigger the activation of caspase-3, leading to apoptosis.
9278461	Proteolytic cleavage of the mdm2 oncoprotein during apoptosis.	The mdm2 oncogene encodes a 90-kDa protein that can bind to the p53 tumor suppressor protein and negatively regulate its functions in transcription, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis. The mdm2 gene is frequently amplified in human sarcomas, which may be responsible for the malignant transformations. We present evidence that the mdm2 oncoprotein is cleaved by an interleukin 1beta-converting enzyme-like protease (caspase) during p53-mediated apoptosis. The protease that cleaves mdm2 has a specificity similar to that of CPP32 (caspase-3), and recombinant caspase-3 is able to cleave mdm2 in vitro. The protease cleavage site has been mapped to between residue 361 and 362 of human mdm2. The proteolytic cleavage removes the COOH-terminal RING finger domain of mdm2, resulting in the loss of RNA binding activity. The p53 binding and inhibition functions of mdm2 are not affected by the cleavage. The cleavage site sequence of mdm2 is evolutionarily conserved, suggesting that regulation by caspase cleavage during apoptosis is an important feature of mdm2.
9278515	Binding of neuroligins to PSD-95.	PSD-95 is a component of postsynaptic densities in central synapses. It contains three PDZ domains that localize N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 2 (NMDA2 receptor) and K+ channels to synapses. In mouse forebrain, PSD-95 bound to the cytoplasmic COOH-termini of neuroligins, which are neuronal cell adhesion molecules that interact with beta-neurexins and form intercellular junctions. Neuroligins bind to the third PDZ domain of PSD-95, whereas NMDA2 receptors and K+ channels interact with the first and second PDZ domains. Thus different PDZ domains of PSD-95 are specialized for distinct functions. PSD-95 may recruit ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors to intercellular junctions formed between neurons by neuroligins and beta-neurexins.
9284049	The human papillomavirus E7 oncoprotein can uncouple cellular differentiation and proliferation in human keratinocytes by abrogating p21Cip1-mediated inhibition of cdk2.	The high risk human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are associated etiologically with the majority of human cervical carcinomas. These HPVs encode two viral oncoproteins, E6 and E7, which are expressed consistently in cervical cancers. The function of these viral oncoproteins during a productive infection is to ensure viral replication in cells that have normally withdrawn from the cell division cycle and are committed to terminal differentiation. Expression of the E7 oncoprotein has been shown to lead to the abrogation of various negative growth regulatory signals, including a p53-mediated G1 growth arrest, TGFbeta-mediated growth inhibition, and quiescence of suprabasal keratinocytes. Here we describe a novel mechanism by which E7 can uncouple cellular proliferation and differentiation. In contrast to normal, differentiating keratinocytes, HPV-16 E7-expressing keratinocytes show delayed cellular differentiation and elevated cdk2 kinase activity despite high levels of p21(Cip1) and association of p21(Cip1) with cdk2. We show that the HPV E7 protein can interact with p21(Cip1) and abrogate p21(Cip1)-mediated inhibition of cyclin A and E-associated kinase activities. Based on these findings, we propose that this capacity of the HPV E7 oncoprotein to overcome p21(Cip1)-mediated inhibition of cdk2 activity during keratinocyte differentiation contributes to the ability of E7 to allow for cellular DNA synthesis in differentiated keratinocytes.
9285683	Association of PTP-PEST with the SH3 domain of p130cas; a novel mechanism of protein tyrosine phosphatase substrate recognition.	The protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP-PEST displays remarkable substrate specificity, in vitro and in vivo for p130cas a signalling intermediate implicated in mitogenic signalling, cell-adhesion induced signalling, and in transformation by a variety of oncogenes. We have identified a high affinity interaction between the SH3 domain of p130cas and a proline-rich sequence (P335PPKPPR) within the C-terminal segment of PTP-PEST. Mutation of proline 337 within this sequence to alanine significantly impairs the ability of PTP-PEST to recognise tyrosine phosphorylated p130cas as a substrate, without qualitatively affecting the selectivity of the interaction. Thus the highly specific nature of the interaction between PTP-PEST and p130cas appears to result from a combination of two distinct substrate recognition mechanisms; the catalytic domain of PTP-PEST contributes specificity to the interaction with p130cas, whereas the SH3 domain-mediated association of p130cas and PTP-PEST dramatically increases the efficiency of the interaction. Furthermore, our results indicate that one important function of the p130cas SH3 domain is to associate with PTP-PEST and thereby facilitate the dephosphorylation of p130cas, resulting in the termination of tyrosine phosphorylation-dependent signalling events downstream of p130cas.
9287012	Analysis of the interaction of FtsZ with itself, GTP, and FtsA.	The interaction of FtsZ with itself, GTP, and FtsA was examined by analyzing the sensitivity of FtsZ to proteolysis and by using the yeast two-hybrid system. The N-terminal conserved domain consisting of 320 amino acids bound GTP, and a central region of FtsZ, encompassing slightly more than half of the protein, was cross-linked to GTP. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that none of six highly conserved aspartic acid and asparagine residues were required for GTP binding. These results indicate that the specificity determinants for GTP binding are different than those for the GTPase superfamily. The N-terminal conserved domain of FtsZ contained a site for self-interaction that is conserved between FtsZ proteins from distantly related bacterial species. FtsZ320, which was truncated at the end of the conserved domain, was a potent inhibitor of division although it expressed normal GTPase activity and could polymerize. FtsZ was also found to interact directly with FtsA, and this interaction could also be observed between these proteins from distantly related bacterial species.
9295027	CD9, but not other tetraspans, associates with the beta1 integrin precursor.	The molecules of the tetraspan superfamily have two unequal extracellular domains separated by four transmembrane (TM) domains. These molecules are associated on the cell surface with each other and with other partner molecules, in particular beta1 integrins. We now show that CD9 associates with the precursor of the beta1 integrin (pre beta1). This association is detected as early as 15 min after metabolic labeling, and the use of Brefeldin A demonstrates that it does not require Golgi modifications of either CD9 or integrin beta1. The specificity of this interaction is demonstrated by the fact that other tetraspans, CD63, CD81, and CD82, do not associate with pre beta1, and CD9 does not associate with immature human histocompatibility leukocyte antigen class I. In order to localize the region of CD9 responsible for the association with the beta1 integrin, we have generated two reciprocal chimeric CD9/CD82 molecules with the junction localized just after the third TM region. The large extracellular loop of CD9 or the fourth TM domain, or both, appear to be sufficient to mediate an association with the mature integrin with a high efficiency, compared to CD82. By contrast, association with pre beta1 requires at least two regions of the molecule. Mutation of CD9 at the consensus site of the tetraspan superfamily, localized between the second and the third TM domain, did not impair the co-precipitation of pre beta1. Finally, because pre beta1 associates with calnexin, we have investigated a possible association of CD9 with this chaperone molecule. CD9 associates with calnexin independently of its association with the beta1 integrin, suggesting that calnexin could be involved in the processing of CD9.
9299613	P32/TAP, a cellular protein that interacts with EBNA-1 of Epstein-Barr virus.	The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) EBNA-1 protein has a central role in the maintenance of a latent EBV infection and is the only virus-encoded protein expressed in all EBV-associated tumors. EBNA-1 is required for replication of the episomal form of the latent viral genome and transactivates the latency C and LMP-1 promoters. The mechanisms by which EBNA-1 performs these functions are not known. Here we describe the cloning, expression, and characterization of a cellular protein, P32/TAP, which strongly interacts with EBNA-1. We show that P32/TAP is expressed at high levels in Raji cells and is synthesized as a proprotein of 282 amino acids (aa) that is posttranslationally processed by a two-step cleavage process to yield a mature protein of 209 aa. It has been previously reported that P32/TAP is expressed on the cell surface. Our transient expression assays detected full-length P32/TAP (1-282 aa) in the cytoplasm while mature P32/TAP protein localized to the nucleus. Three lines of evidence support P32/TAP interaction with EBNA-1. First, in the yeast two-hybrid system we mapped two interactive N-terminal regions of EBNA-1, aa 40-60 and aa 325-376, each of which contains arginine-glycine repeats. These regions interact with the C-terminal half of P32/TAP. Second, the full-length cytoplasmic P32/TAP protein can translocate nuclear EBNA-1 into the cytoplasm. Third, P32/TAP co-immunoprecipitated with EBNA-1. We have confirmed that a Gal4 fusion protein containing the C-terminal region of P32/TAP (aa 244-282) transactivates expression from a reporter containing upstream Gal4-binding sites. Deletion of the P32/TAP interactive regions of EBNA-1 severely diminished EBNA-1 transactivation of FRTKCAT in transient expression assays. Our data suggest that interaction with P32/TAP may contribute to EBNA-1-mediated transactivation.
9300481	Crystal structures of bovine chymotrypsin and trypsin complexed to the inhibitor domain of Alzheimer's amyloid beta-protein precursor (APPI) and basic pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI): engineering of inhibitors with altered specificities.	The crystal structures of the inhibitor domain of Alzheimer's amyloid beta-protein precursor (APPI) complexed to bovine chymotrypsin (C-APPI) and trypsin (T-APPI) and basic pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI) bound to chymotrypsin (C-BPTI) have been solved and analyzed at 2.1 A, 1.8 A, and 2.6 A resolution, respectively. APPI and BPTI belong to the Kunitz family of inhibitors, which is characterized by a distinctive tertiary fold with three conserved disulfide bonds. At the specificity-determining site of these inhibitors (P1), residue 15(I)4 is an arginine in APPI and a lysine in BPTI, residue types that are counter to the chymotryptic hydrophobic specificity. In the chymotrypsin complexes, the Arg and Lys P1 side chains of the inhibitors adopt conformations that bend away from the bottom of the binding pocket to interact productively with elements of the binding pocket other than those observed for specificity-matched P1 side chains. The stereochemistry of the nucleophilic hydroxyl of Ser 195 in chymotrypsin relative to the scissile P1 bond of the inhibitors is identical to that observed for these groups in the trypsin-APPI complex, where Arg 15(I) is an optimal side chain for tryptic specificity. To further evaluate the diversity of sequences that can be accommodated by one of these inhibitors, APPI, we used phage display to randomly mutate residues 11, 13, 15, 17, and 19, which are major binding determinants. Inhibitors variants were selected that bound to either trypsin or chymotrypsin. As expected, trypsin specificity was principally directed by having a basic side chain at P1 (position 15); however, the P1 residues that were selected for chymotrypsin binding were His and Asn, rather than the expected large hydrophobic types. This can be rationalized by modeling these hydrophilic side chains to have similar H-bonding interactions to those observed in the structures of the described complexes. The specificity, or lack thereof, for the other individual subsites is discussed in the context of the "allowed" residues determined from a phage display mutagenesis selection experiment.
9303539	Binding specificity and in vivo targets of the EH domain, a novel protein-protein interaction module.	EH is a recently identified protein-protein interaction domain found in the signal transducers Eps15 and Eps15R and several other proteins of yeast nematode. We show that EH domains from Eps15 and Eps15R bind in vitro to peptides containing an asparagine-proline-phenylalanine (NPF) motif. Direct screening of expression libraries with EH domains yielded a number of putative EH interactors, all of which possessed NPF motifs that were shown to be responsible for the interaction. Among these interactors were the human homolog of NUMB, a developmentally reguated gene of Drosophila, and RAB, the cellular cofactor of the HIV REV protein. We demonstrated coimmunoprecipitation of Eps15 with NUMB and RAB. Finally, in vitro binding of NPF-containing peptides to cellular proteins and EST database screening established the existence of a family of EH-containing proteins in mammals. Based on the characteristics of EH-containing and EH-binding proteins, we propose that EH domains are involved in processes connected with the transport and sorting of molecules within the cell.
9305851	BH3 domain of BAD is required for heterodimerization with BCL-XL and pro-apoptotic activity.	BAD interacts with anti-apoptotic molecules BCL-2 and BCL-XL and promotes apoptosis. BAD is phosphorylated on serine residues in response to a survival factor, interleukin-3. Phosphorylated BAD cannot bind to BCL-XL or BCL-2 at membrane sites and is found in the cytosol bound to 14-3-3. We report here that deletion mapping and site-directed mutagenesis identified a BH3 domain within BAD that proved necessary for both its heterodimerization with BCL-XL and its death agonist activity. Substitution of the conserved Leu151 with Ala in the BH3 amphipathic alpha-helix abrogated both functions. The BAD Leu151 mutant was predominantly in the cytosol bound to 14-3-3. The BH3 domain of BCL-2 also proved important for BCL-2/BAD interaction. These results establish a critical role for a BH3 domain within BAD and provide evidence that BAD may function as a death ligand whose pro-apoptotic activity requires heterodimerization with BCL-XL.
9305870	The PDZ domain of human erythrocyte p55 mediates its binding to the cytoplasmic carboxyl terminus of glycophorin C. Analysis of the binding interface by in vitro mutagenesis.	The PDZ domain, also known as the GLGF repeat/DHR domain, is an approximately 90-amino acid motif discovered in a recently identified family of proteins termed MAGUKs (membrane-associated guanylate kinase homologues). Sequence comparison analysis has since identified PDZ domains in over 50 proteins. Like SH2 and SH3 domains, the PDZ domains mediate specific protein-protein interactions, whose specificities appear to be dictated by the primary structure of the PDZ domain as well as its binding target. Using recombinant fusion proteins and a blot overlay assay, we show that a single copy of the PDZ domain in human erythrocyte p55 binds to the carboxyl terminus of the cytoplasmic domain of human erythroid glycophorin C. Deletion mutagenesis of 21 amino acids at the amino terminus of the p55 PDZ domain completely abrogates its binding activity for glycophorin C. Using an alanine scan and surface plasmon resonance technique, we identify residues in the cytoplasmic domain of glycophorin C that are critical for its interaction with the PDZ domain. The recognition specificity of the p55 PDZ domain appears to be unique, since the three PDZ domains of hDlg (human lymphocyte homologue of the Drosophila discs large tumor suppressor) do not bind the cytoplasmic domain of glycophorin C. Taken together with our previous studies, these results complete the identification of interacting domains in the ternary complex between p55, glycophorin C, and protein 4.1. Implications of these findings are discussed in terms of binding specificity and the regulation of cytoskeleton-membrane interactions.
9305890	A novel GTPase-activating protein for Rho interacts with a PDZ domain of the protein-tyrosine phosphatase PTPL1.	PTPL1 is an intracellular protein-tyrosine phosphatase that contains five PDZ domains. Here, we present the cloning of a novel 150-kDa protein, the four most C-terminal amino acid residues of which specifically interact with the fourth PDZ domain of PTPL1. The molecule contains a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) domain, a cysteine-rich, putative Zn2+- and diacylglycerol-binding domain, and a region of sequence homology to the product of the Caenorhabditis elegans gene ZK669.1a. The GAP domain is active on Rho, Rac, and Cdc42 in vitro but with a clear preference for Rho; we refer to the molecule as PTPL1-associated RhoGAP 1, PARG1. Rho is inactivated by GAPs, and protein-tyrosine phosphorylation has been implicated in Rho signaling. Therefore, a complex between PTPL1 and PARG1 may function as a powerful negative regulator of Rho signaling, acting both on Rho itself and on tyrosine phosphorylated components in the Rho signal transduction pathway.
9305916	The DNA repair endonuclease XPG binds to proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and shares sequence elements with the PCNA-binding regions of FEN-1 and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21.	Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is a DNA polymerase accessory factor that is required for DNA replication during S phase of the cell cycle and for resynthesis during nucleotide excision repair of damaged DNA. PCNA binds to flap endonuclease 1 (FEN-1), a structure-specific endonuclease involved in DNA replication. Here we report the direct physical interaction of PCNA with xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) G, a structure-specific repair endonuclease that is homologous to FEN-1. We have identified a 28-amino acid region of human FEN-1 (residues 328-355) and a 29-amino acid region of human XPG (residues 981-1009) that contains the PCNA binding activity. These regions share key hydrophobic residues with the PCNA-binding domain of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21(Waf1/Cip1), and all three competed with one another for binding to PCNA. A conserved arginine in FEN-1 (Arg339) and XPG (Arg992) was found to be crucial for PCNA binding activity. R992A and R992E mutant forms of XPG failed to fully reconstitute nucleotide excision repair in an in vivo complementation assay. These results raise the possibility of a mechanistic linkage between excision and repair synthesis that is mediated by PCNA.
9311902	Conserved interaction of the papillomavirus E2 transcriptional activator proteins with human and yeast TFIIB proteins.	Papillomavirus early gene expression is regulated by the virus gene-encoded E2 proteins. The best-characterized E2 protein, encoded by bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1), has been shown to interact with basal transcription factor IIB (TFIIB) and the TATA binding protein basal transcription factor (N. M. Rank and P. F. Lambert, J. Virol. 69:6323-6334, 1995). We demonstrate that the potent E2 transcriptional activator protein encoded by a gene of human PV type 16 also interacts with TFIIB in vitro. Moreover, a direct comparison of domains within human TFIIB (hTFIIB) required for VP16 and BPV-1 E2 indicates that these acidic activators interact with hTFIIB in a qualitatively similar manner. Our mapping experiments identify hTFIIB interaction domains within the amino-terminal activation domain of BPV-1 E2. Finally, we demonstrate in vitro interaction between Saccharomyces cerevisiae TFIIB and BPV-1 E2, an observation that is consistent with the importance of the E2-TFIIB interaction for BPV-1 E2 transactivation in both systems.
9312026	An alternative pathway for gene regulation by Myc.	The c-Myc protein activates transcription as part of a heteromeric complex with Max. However, Myc-transformed cells are characterized by loss of expression of several genes, suggesting that Myc may also repress gene expression. Two-hybrid cloning identifies a novel POZ domain Zn finger protein (Miz-1; Myc-interacting Zn finger protein-1) that specifically interacts with Myc, but not with Max or USF. Miz-1 binds to start sites of the adenovirus major late and cyclin D1 promoters and activates transcription from both promoters. Miz-1 has a potent growth arrest function. Binding of Myc to Miz-1 requires the helix-loop-helix domain of Myc and a short amphipathic helix located in the carboxy-terminus of Miz-1. Expression of Myc inhibits transactivation, overcomes Miz-1-induced growth arrest and renders Miz-1 insoluble in vivo. These processes depend on Myc and Miz-1 association and on the integrity of the POZ domain of Miz-1, suggesting that Myc binding activates a latent inhibitory function of this domain. Fusion of a nuclear localization signal induces efficient nuclear transport of Miz-1 and impairs the ability of Myc to overcome transcriptional activation and growth arrest by Miz-1. Our data suggest a model for how gene repression by Myc may occur in vivo.
9312071	Binding of Ku and c-Abl at the kinase homology region of DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit.	The DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) controls the repair of double-stranded DNA breaks in mammalian cells. The protein kinase subunit of DNA-PK (DNA-PKcs) is targeted to DNA breaks by association with the Ku DNA-binding heterodimer. Here we show that a Ku association site is present at the carboxyl terminus of DNA-PKcs (amino acids 3002-3850) near the protein kinase domain. Correspondingly, the nuclear c-Abl tyrosine kinase that associates with DNA-PK also binds to the kinase homology domain. The c-Abl SH3 domain binds to amino acids 3414-3850 of DNA-PKcs. c-Abl phosphorylates C-terminal fragments of DNA-PKcs, particularly amino acids 3414-3850. c-Abl phosphorylation of DNA-PKcs disassociates the DNA-PKcs.Ku complex. Thus, Ku and c-Abl provide opposing functions with regard to DNA-PK activity.
9312143	14-3-3 protein binds to insulin receptor substrate-1, one of the binding sites of which is in the phosphotyrosine binding domain.	Insulin binding to its receptor induces the phosphorylation of cytosolic substrates, insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1 and IRS-2, which associate with several Src homology-2 domain-containing proteins. To identify unique IRS-1-binding proteins, we screened a human heart cDNA library with 32P-labeled recombinant IRS-1 and obtained two isoforms (epsilon and zeta) of the 14-3-3 protein family. 14-3-3 protein has been shown to associate with IRS-1 in L6 myotubes, HepG2 hepatoma cells, Chinese hamster ovary cells, and bovine brain tissue. IRS-2, a protein structurally similar to IRS-1, was also shown to form a complex with 14-3-3 protein using a baculovirus expression system. The amount of 14-3-3 protein associated with IRS-1 was not affected by insulin stimulation but was increased significantly by treatment with okadaic acid, a potent serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitor. Peptide inhibition experiments using phosphoserine-containing peptides of IRS-1 revealed that IRS-1 contains three putative binding sites for 14-3-3 protein (Ser-270, Ser-374, and Ser-641). Among these three, the motif around Ser-270 is located in the phosphotyrosine binding domain of IRS-1, which is responsible for the interaction with the insulin receptor. Indeed, a truncated mutant of IRS-1 consisting of only the phosphotyrosine binding domain retained the capacity to bind to 14-3-3 protein in vivo. Finally, the effect of 14-3-3 protein binding on the insulin-induced phosphorylation of IRS-1 was investigated. Phosphoamino acid analysis revealed that IRS-1 coimmunoprecipitated with anti-14-3-3 antibody to be weakly phosphorylated after insulin stimulation, on tyrosine as well as serine residues, compared with IRS-1 immunoprecipitated with anti-IRS-1 antibody. Thus, the association with 14-3-3 protein may play a role in the regulation of insulin sensitivity by interrupting the association between the insulin receptor and IRS-1.
9315655	FKBP12 physically and functionally interacts with aspartokinase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The peptidyl-prolyl isomerase FKBP12 was originally identified as the intracellular receptor for the immunosuppressive drugs FK506 (tacrolimus) and rapamycin (sirolimus). Although peptidyl-prolyl isomerases have been implicated in catalyzing protein folding, the cellular functions of FKBP12 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and other organisms are largely unknown. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we identified aspartokinase, an enzyme that catalyzes an intermediate step in threonine and methionine biosynthesis, as an in vivo binding target of FKBP12. Aspartokinase also binds FKBP12 in vitro, and drugs that bind the FKBP12 active site, or mutations in FKBP12 surface and active site residues, disrupt the FKBP12-aspartokinase complex in vivo and in vitro.fpr1 mutants lacking FKBP12 are viable, are not threonine or methionine auxotrophs, and express wild-type levels of aspartokinase protein and activity; thus, FKBP12 is not essential for aspartokinase activity. The activity of aspartokinase is regulated by feedback inhibition by product, and genetic analyses reveal that FKBP12 is important for this feedback inhibition, possibly by catalyzing aspartokinase conformational changes in response to product binding.
9315708	SH3 domain-dependent interactions of endophilin with amphiphysin.	Amphiphysin I and II are nerve terminal-enriched proteins thought to function in synaptic vesicle endocytosis. In addition to a C-terminal SH3 domain, the proteins contain a highly conserved putative SH3 binding site and numerous consensus phosphorylation sites. We now demonstrate that amphiphysin I but not amphiphysin II is a phosphoprotein which undergoes dephosphorylation during nerve terminal depolarization. Further, both amphiphysin I and II interact with the SH3 domain of endophilin, a synaptically enriched protein implicated in synaptic vesicle endocytosis. The interaction is direct and mediated through a 43 amino acid region of amphiphysin containing the putative SH3 binding site. These data further support a role for amphiphysin I, II and endophilin in synaptic vesicle endocytosis.
9323129	The spinal muscular atrophy disease gene product, SMN, and its associated protein SIP1 are in a complex with spliceosomal snRNP proteins.	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), one of the most common fatal autosomal recessive diseases, is characterized by degeneration of motor neurons and muscular atrophy. The SMA disease gene, termed Survival of Motor Neurons (SMN), is deleted or mutated in over 98% of SMA patients. The function of the SMN protein is unknown. We found that SMN is tightly associated with a novel protein, SIP1, and together they form a specific complex with several spliceosomal snRNP proteins. SMN interacts directly with several of the snRNP Sm core proteins, including B, D1-3, and E. Interestingly, SIP1 has significant sequence similarity with Brr1, a yeast protein critical for snRNP biogenesis. These findings suggest a role for SMN and SIP1 in spliceosomal snRNP biogenesis and function and provide a likely molecular mechanism for the cause of SMA.
9326658	Binding of high-risk human papillomavirus E6 oncoproteins to the human homologue of the Drosophila discs large tumor suppressor protein.	In the majority of cervical cancers, DNAs of high-risk mucosotpropic human papillomaviruses (HPVs), such as type 16, are maintained so as to express two viral proteins, E6 and E7, suggesting an essential importance to carcinogenesis. The high-risk HPV E6 proteins are known to inactivate p53 tumor suppressor protein but appear to have an additional, molecularly unknown function(s). In this study, we demonstrate that these E6 proteins can bind to the second PDZ domain of the human homologue of the Drosophila discs large tumor suppressor protein (hDLG) through their C-terminal XS/TXV/L (where X represents any amino acid, S/T serine or threonine, and V/L valine or leucine) motif. This finding is similar to the interaction between the adenomatous polyposis coli gene product and hDLG. E6 mutants losing the ability to bind to hDLG are no longer able to induce E6-dependent transformation of rodent cells. These results suggest an intriguing possibility that interaction between the E6 protein and hDLG or other PDZ domain-containing proteins could be an underlying mechanism in the development of HPV-associated cancers.
9334294	The structure of nitric oxide synthase oxygenase domain and inhibitor complexes.	The nitric oxide synthase oxygenase domain (NOSox) oxidizes arginine to synthesize the cellular signal and defensive cytotoxin nitric oxide (NO). Crystal structures determined for cytokine-inducible NOSox reveal an unusual fold and heme environment for stabilization of activated oxygen intermediates key for catalysis. A winged beta sheet engenders a curved alpha-beta domain resembling a baseball catcher's mitt with heme clasped in the palm. The location of exposed hydrophobic residues and the results of mutational analysis place the dimer interface adjacent to the heme-binding pocket. Juxtaposed hydrophobic O2- and polar L-arginine-binding sites occupied by imidazole and aminoguanidine, respectively, provide a template for designing dual-function inhibitors and imply substrate-assisted catalysis.
9334740	The crystal structures of two spermadhesins reveal the CUB domain fold.	Spermadhesins, 12,000-14,000 M(r) mammalian proteins, include lectins involved in sperm-egg binding and display a single CUB domain architecture. We report the crystal structures of porcine seminal plasma PSP-I/PSP-II, a heterodimer of two glycosylated spermadhesins, and bovine aSFP at 2.4 A and 1.9 A resolution respectively.
9335268	Functional domains of the InsA protein of IS2.	The InsA protein is a transcriptional regulator. It binds to the promoter region of insA and insAB'. To understand the molecular mechanism for the interaction between InsA and its binding sequence, the functional domains of InsA were identified. The glutaraldehyde cross-linking method and the two-hybrid expression system were used to study the protein-protein interaction of InsA. The results of these experiments showed that InsA forms homodimers. Deletion of the last 44 amino acid residues at its C terminus, but not the first 12 or 57 residues at the N terminus, abolished the ability of InsA to form homodimers, indicating that the protein-protein interaction domain of InsA is located at its C terminus. Gel retardation assays revealed that deletion of the last 29 amino acid residues at its C terminus had no effect on the DNA binding ability of InsA. In contrast, deletion of the first N-terminal 12 residues abolished the DNA binding capability of InsA. These results indicate that the DNA binding domain of InsA is located at its N terminus.
9335587	Mutational analysis of STE5 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae: application of a differential interaction trap assay for examining protein-protein interactions.	Ste5 is essential for the yeast mating pheromone response pathway and is thought to function as a scaffold that organizes the components of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade. A new method was developed to isolate missense mutations in Ste5 that differentially affect the ability of Ste5 to interact with either of two MAPK cascade constituents, the MEKK (Ste11) and the MEK (Ste7). Mutations that affect association with Ste7 or with Ste11 delineate discrete regions of Ste5 that are critical for each interaction. Co-immunoprecipitation analysis, examining the binding in vitro of Ste5 to Ste11, Ste7, Ste4 (G protein beta subunit), and Fus3 (MAPK), confirmed that each mutation specifically affects the interaction of Ste5 with only one protein. When expressed in a ste5 delta cell, mutant Ste5 proteins that are defective in their ability to interact with either Ste11 or Ste7 result in a markedly reduced mating proficiency. One mutation that clearly weakened (but did not eliminate) interaction of Ste5 with Ste7 permitted mating at wild-type efficiency, indicating that an efficacious signal is generated even when Ste5 associates with only a small fraction of (or only transiently with) Ste7. Ste5 mutants defective in association with Ste11 or Ste7 showed strong interallelic complementation when co-expressed, suggesting that the functional form of Ste5 in vivo is an oligomer.
9335591	DMC1 functions in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae meiotic pathway that is largely independent of the RAD51 pathway.	Meiotic recombination in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae requires two similar recA-like proteins, Dmc1p and Rad51p. A screen for dominant meiotic mutants provided DMC1-G126D, a dominant allele mutated in the conserved ATP-binding site (specifically, the A-loop motif) that confers a null phenotype. A recessive null allele, dmc1-K69E, was isolated as an intragenic suppressor of DMC1-G126D. Dmc1-K69Ep, unlike Dmc1p, does not interact homotypically in a two-hybrid assay, although it does interact with other fusion proteins identified by two-hybrid screen with Dmc1p. Dmc1p, unlike Rad51p, does not interact in the two-hybrid assay with Rad52p or Rad54p. However, Dmc1p does interact with Tid1p, a Rad54p homologue, with Tid4p, a Rad16p homologue, and with other fusion proteins that do not interact with Rad51p, suggesting that Dmc1p and Rad51p function in separate, though possibly overlapping, recombinational repair complexes. Epistasis analysis suggests that DMC1 and RAD51 function in separate pathways responsible for meiotic recombination. Taken together, our results are consistent with a requirement for DMC1 for meiosis-specific entry of DNA double-strand break ends into chromatin. Interestingly, the pattern on CHEF gels of chromosome fragments that result from meiotic DNA double-strand break formation is different in DMC1 mutant strains from that seen in rad50S strains.
9341123	Human homologue of the Drosophila discs large tumor suppressor binds to p56lck tyrosine kinase and Shaker type Kv1.3 potassium channel in T lymphocytes.	Human homologue of the Drosophila discs large tumor suppressor protein (hDlg) belongs to a newly discovered family of proteins termed MAGUKs that appear to have structural as well as signaling functions. Consistent with the multi-domain organization of MAGUKs, hDlg consists of three copies of the PDZ (PSD-95/Discs large/zO-1) domain, an SH3 motif, and a guanylate kinase-like domain. In addition, the hDlg contains an amino-terminal proline-rich domain that is absent in other MAGUKs. To explore the role of hDlg in cell signaling pathways, we used human T lymphocytes as a model system to investigate interaction of hDlg with known tyrosine kinases. In human T lymphocyte cell lines, binding properties of hDlg were studied by immunoprecipitation, immunoblotting, and immune complex kinase assays. Our results show that protein tyrosine kinase activity is associated with the immunoprecipitates of hDlg. Immunoblotting experiments revealed that the immunoprecipitates of hDlg contain p56lck, a member of the Src family of tyrosine kinases. The specificity of the interaction is demonstrated by the lack of p59fyn tyrosine kinase and phosphotidylinositol 3-kinase in the hDlg immunoprecipitates. Direct interaction between hDlg and p56lck is demonstrated using glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins of hDlg and recombinant p56lck expressed in the baculovirus-infected Sf9 cells. The p56lck binding site was localized within the amino-terminal segment of hDlg containing proline-rich domain. In addition, we show in vivo association of hDlg with Kv1.3 channel, which was expressed in T lymphocytes as an epitope-tagged protein using a vaccinia virus expression system. Taken together, these results provide the first evidence of a direct interaction between hDlg and p56lck tyrosine kinase and suggest a novel function of hDlg in coupling tyrosine kinase and voltage-gated potassium channel in T lymphocytes.
9343427	Identification of SH2-Bbeta as a substrate of the tyrosine kinase JAK2 involved in growth hormone signaling.	Activation of the tyrosine kinase JAK2 is an essential step in cellular signaling by growth hormone (GH) and multiple other hormones and cytokines. Murine JAK2 has a total of 49 tyrosines which, if phosphorylated, could serve as docking sites for Src homology 2 (SH2) or phosphotyrosine binding domain-containing signaling molecules. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen of a rat adipocyte cDNA library, we identified a splicing variant of the SH2 domain-containing protein SH2-B, designated SH2-Bbeta, as a JAK2-interacting protein. The carboxyl terminus of SH2-Bbeta (SH2-Bbetac), which contains the SH2 domain, specifically interacts with kinase-active, tyrosyl-phosphorylated JAK2 but not kinase-inactive, unphosphorylated JAK2 in the yeast two-hybrid system. In COS cells coexpressing SH2-Bbeta or SH2-Bbetac and murine JAK2, both SH2-Bbetac and SH2-Bbeta coimmunoprecipitate to a significantly greater extent with wild-type, tyrosyl-phosphorylated JAK2 than with kinase-inactive, unphosphorylated JAK2. SH2-Bbetac also binds to immunoprecipitated wild-type but not kinase-inactive JAK2 in a far Western blot. In 3T3-F442A cells, GH stimulates the interaction of SH2-Bbeta with tyrosyl-phosphorylated JAK2 both in vitro, as assessed by binding of JAK2 in cell lysates to glutathione S-transferase (GST)-SH2-Bbetac or GST-SH2-Bbeta fusion proteins, and in vivo, as assessed by coimmunoprecipitation of JAK2 with SH2-Bbeta. GH promoted a transient and dose-dependent tyrosyl phosphorylation of SH2-Bbeta in 3T3-F442A cells, further suggesting the involvement of SH2-Bbeta in GH signaling. Consistent with SH2-Bbeta being a substrate of JAK2, SH2-Bbetac is tyrosyl phosphorylated when coexpressed with wild-type but not kinase-inactive JAK2 in both yeast and COS cells. SH2-Bbeta was also tyrosyl phosphorylated in response to gamma interferon, a cytokine that activates JAK2 and JAK1. These data suggest that GH-induced activation and phosphorylation of JAK2 recruits SH2-Bbeta and its associated signaling molecules into a GHR-JAK2 complex, thereby initiating some as yet unidentified signal transduction pathways. These pathways are likely to be shared by other cytokines that activate JAK2.
9346241	The IkappaB kinase complex (IKK) contains two kinase subunits, IKKalpha and IKKbeta, necessary for IkappaB phosphorylation and NF-kappaB activation.	Recently we purified a 900 kDa cytokine-responsive IkappaB kinase complex (IKK) and molecularly cloned one of its subunits, IKKalpha, a serine kinase. We now describe the molecular cloning and characterization of IKKbeta, a second subunit of the IKK complex. IKKbeta is 50% identical to IKKalpha and like it contains a kinase domain, a leucine zipper, and a helix-loop-helix. Although IKKalpha and IKKbeta can undergo homotypic interaction, they also interact with each other and the functional IKK complex contains both subunits. The catalytic activities of both IKKalpha and IKKbeta make essential contributions to IkappaB phosphorylation and NF-kappaB activation. While the interactions between IKKalpha and IKKbeta may be mediated through their leucine zipper motifs, their helix-loop-helix motifs may be involved in interactions with essential regulatory subunits.
9346309	Characterisation of macrophage inflammatory protein-5/human CC cytokine-2, a member of the macrophage-inflammatory-protein family of chemokines.	A human monocyte-activating CC chemokine has been identified based on sequences in an expressed sequence tag (EST) cDNA database. The protein shows highest sequence identity to the macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP) group of chemokines, particularly MIP-3 (76.7%) and MIP-1alpha (75.4%), and has been named MIP-5. Model building confirms that the protein has a similar three dimensional structure to other chemokines, but has an additional third disulphide bond. Northern blot analysis and reverse-transcriptase PCR show that the mRNA for MIP-5 is expressed at a high levels in liver, intestine and in lung leukocytes. MIP-5 induces chemotaxis of human monocytes, T-lymphocytes and, to a lesser degree, eosinophils at nanomolar concentrations; it has no effect on neutrophil migration. In receptor-binding assays, MIP-5 shows IC50 values of 12 nM for competition with 125I-MIP-1alpha for binding to CC-chemokine receptor (CCR)1, and 2.5 nM for competition with 125I-MCP-3 for binding to CCR3. It shows no ability to compete with ligand for binding to the two interleukin (IL)-8 receptors (CXC-chemokine receptors 1 and 2) or to CCR2, CCR4 or CCR5. Consistent with this binding data, MIP-5 was only able to induce calcium fluxes in CHO cells stably transfected with CCR1 or CCR3.
9346485	IkappaB kinase-beta: NF-kappaB activation and complex formation with IkappaB kinase-alpha and NIK.	Activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) by inflammatory cytokines requires the successive action of NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK) and IkappaB kinase-alpha (IKK-alpha). A widely expressed protein kinase was identified that is 52 percent identical to IKK-alpha. IkappaB kinase-beta (IKK-beta) activated NF-kappaB when overexpressed and phosphorylated serine residues 32 and 36 of IkappaB-alpha and serines 19 and 23 of IkappaB-beta. The activity of IKK-beta was stimulated by tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1 treatment. IKK-alpha and IKK-beta formed heterodimers that interacted with NIK. Overexpression of a catalytically inactive form of IKK-beta blocked cytokine-induced NF-kappaB activation. Thus, an active IkappaB kinase complex may require three distinct protein kinases.
9349482	Human papillomavirus type 16 E7 binds to the conserved carboxy-terminal region of the TATA box binding protein and this contributes to E7 transforming activity.	We have previously shown that the human papillomavirus E7 proteins bind to the cellular TATA box binding protein (TBP). In this paper we show that the HPV-18 E6 and the HPV-16 E2 proteins will also bind TBP in vitro. This feature of virus proteins is conserved across many viral types and we were interested in determining whether these HPV proteins interacted with the same conserved region of the TBP molecule. A series of deletions was introduced into the TBP protein and its binding to these HPV proteins was measured. The previously well-characterized interaction between p53 and TBP was used for comparison. All four proteins were found to interact with the carboxy-terminal domain of the TBP protein, although the precise residues involved and the relative strengths of association differed between the different HPV proteins. Mutational analysis of HPV-16 E7 protein identified a stretch of four amino acids responsible for the binding to TBP. This mutant E7 protein possessed wild-type levels of transcriptional activity on the adenovirus E2 promoter but exhibited reduced transforming activity in cooperation with EJ-ras. These results demonstrate that the mechanisms of interaction between diverse viral proteins and TBP are similar and that, in the case of E7, this interaction may contribute to its transforming activity.
9353194	Structural plasticity in a remodeled protein-protein interface.	Remodeling of the interface between human growth hormone (hGH) and the extracellular domain of its receptor was studied by deleting a critical tryptophan residue (at position 104) in the receptor, creating a large cavity, and selecting a pentamutant of hGH by phage display that fills the cavity and largely restores binding affinity. A 2.1 A resolution x-ray structure of the mutant complex showed that the receptor cavity was filled by selected hydrophobic mutations of hGH. Large structural rearrangements occurred in the interface at sites that were distant from the mutations. Such plasticity may be a means for protein-protein interfaces to adapt to mutations as they coevolve.
9356459	The amphiphysin-like protein 1 (ALP1) interacts functionally with the cABL tyrosine kinase and may play a role in cytoskeletal regulation.	cABL is a protooncogene, activated in a subset of human leukemias, whose protein product is a nonreceptor tyrosine kinase of unknown function. cABL has a complex structure that includes several domains and motifs found in proteins implicated in signal transduction pathways. An approach to elucidate cABL function is to identify proteins that interact directly with cABL and that may serve as regulators or effectors of its activity. To this end, a protein-interaction screen of a phage expression library was undertaken to identify proteins that interact with specific domains of cABL. An SH3-domain-containing protein has been identified that interacts with sequences in the cABL carboxyl terminus. The cDNA encoding ALP1 (amphiphysin-like protein 1) was isolated from a 16-day mouse embryo. ALP1 has high homology to BIN1, a recently cloned myc-interacting protein, and also shows significant homology to amphiphysin, a neuronal protein cloned from human and chicken. The amino terminus has homology to two yeast proteins, Rvs167 and Rvs161, which are involved in cell entry into stationary phase and cytoskeletal organization. ALP1 binds cABL in vitro and in vivo. Expression of ALP1 results in morphological transformation of NIH 3T3 fibroblasts in a cABL-dependent manner. The properties of ALP1 suggest that it may be involved in possible cytoskeletal functions of the cABL kinase. Additionally, these results provide further evidence for the importance of the cABL carboxyl terminus and its binding proteins in the regulation of cABL function.
9356463	Dystrobrevin and dystrophin: an interaction through coiled-coil motifs.	Dystrobrevin, a dystrophin-related and -associated protein, has been proposed to be important in the formation and maintenance of the neuromuscular junction. Dystrobrevin coprecipitates with both the acetylcholine receptor complex as well as the dystrophin glycoprotein complex. Although the nature of dystrobrevin's association with the dystrophin glycoprotein complex remains unclear, it is known that dystrobrevin binds directly to the syntrophins, a heterologous group of dystrophin-associated proteins. Using the yeast two-hybrid system to identify protein-protein interactions, we present evidence for the heterodimerization of dystrobrevin directly with dystrophin. The C terminus of dystrobrevin binds specifically to the C terminus of dystrophin. We further refined this site of interaction to these proteins' homologous coiled-coil motifs that flank their respective syntrophin-binding sites. We also show that the interaction between the dystrobrevin and dystrophin coiled-coil domains is specific and is not due to a nonspecific coiled-coil domain interaction. From the accumulated evidence of protein-protein interactions presented here and elsewhere, we propose a partially revised model of the organization of the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex.
9362495	Identification of partners of TIF34, a component of the yeast eIF3 complex, required for cell proliferation and translation initiation.	Eukaryotic initiation factor-3 (eIF3) in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae plays a central role in initiation of translation. The eIF3 complex contains at least eight different proteins, but, as yet, little is known about the function of the individual proteins. In this study we have characterized the role of TIF34 (eIF3-p39), a recently identified WD-40 domain-containing protein of 39 kDa, in the eIF3 complex. Using temperature-sensitive mutants of TIF34 we show that this protein is required for cell cycle progression and for mating and plays an essential role in initiation of protein synthesis. By two-hybrid screening we have identified two partners that directly associate with TIF34: PRT1, a previously characterized eIF3 subunit, and a novel protein of 33 kDa (eIF3-p33) which is part of the eIF3 complex and has an RNA binding domain. TIF34 and p33 interact with each other and overexpression of p33 complements the growth defect of a tif34-ts mutant. Our results provide support for both physical and functional interactions between three subunits, TIF34, PRT1 and p33, in the eIF3 complex.
9368021	Regulation of cross-linking of actin filament by IQGAP1, a target for Cdc42.	We have previously shown that IQGAP1, a recently identified target for Cdc42 and Rac1 small GTPases, showed a distribution similar to that of cortical actin cytoskeleton at the membrane ruffling area induced by insulin and Rac1(val12) (Kuroda, S., Fukata, M., Kobayashi, K., Nakafuku, M., Nomura, N., Iwamatsu, A., and Kaibuchi, K. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 23363-23367). Here we identified an IQGAP1-interacting molecule with molecular mass of 43 kDa (p43) from bovine brain cytosol, using glutathione S-transferase (GST)-IQGAP1 affinity column chromatography. The amino acid sequencing of the protein revealed that p43 was identical to beta- and gamma-actin. IQGAP1 was cosedimentated with filamentous actin (F-actin). The amino-terminal domain (amino acids 1-216) of IQGAP1 was responsible for the interaction with F-actin. Falling ball viscometry assay revealed that IQGAP1 cross-linked the F-actin. This IQGAP1 activity was further enhanced by guanosine 5'-(3-O-thio)triphosphate (GTPgammaS).GST-Cdc42 but not by GDP.GST-Cdc42. The gel filtration analysis of IQGAP1 revealed that IQGAP1 appeared as oligomers and that GTPgammaS.GST-Cdc42 but not GDP.GST-Cdc42 enhanced the oligomerization of IQGAP1. These results strongly suggest that IQGAP1, acting downstream of Cdc42, can cross-link the actin filament through its oligomerization.
9368064	Growth factors stimulate tyrosine dephosphorylation of p75 and its dissociation from the SH2 domain of Grb2.	The growth factor receptor-binding protein (Grb2) has a key role in initiating the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling cascade in major cell regulatory pathways. The binding of proteins to the SH2 domain of Grb2 has been reported to occur mainly after they are tyrosine-phosphorylated following receptor activation. Using an in vitro binding assay, immunoprecipitation, and Far Western techniques, we report that in quiescent cells a 75-kDa protein binds directly to the SH2 domain of Grb2. All of the tyrosine-phosphorylated p75 protein co-localizes with Grb2.Sos complex in the cytosolic fraction of the cell in vivo and undergoes tyrosine dephosphorylation when cells are treated with mitogenic ligands such as epidermal, platelet-derived, and fibroblast growth factors, endothelin-1, and bombesin but not tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-alpha and -gamma, interleukein-6, and leukemic inhibitory factor, which are either cell growth inhibitory or not significantly mitogenic. The dephosphorylation of p75 and the ensuing dissociation from Grb2 is rapid, occurring within 30 s following mitogenic stimulation by ligands such as epidermal growth factor, suggesting p75 to be an early component in the signal transduction pathways involving Grb2.
9372926	Human eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4G (eIF4G) possesses two separate and independent binding sites for eIF4A.	Mammalian translation initiation factor 4F (eIF4F) consists of three subunits, eIF4A, eIF4E, and eIF4G. eIF4G interacts directly with both eIF4A and eIF4E. The binding site for eIF4E is contained in the amino-terminal third of eIF4G, while the binding site for eIF4A was mapped to the carboxy-terminal third of the molecule. Here we show that human eIF4G possesses two separate eIF4A binding domains in the middle third (amino acids [aa] 478 to 883) and carboxy-terminal third (aa 884 to 1404) of the molecule. The amino acid sequence of the middle portion of eIF4G is well conserved between yeasts and humans. We show that mutations of conserved amino acid stretches in the middle domain abolish or reduce eIF4A binding as well as eIF3 binding. In addition, a separate and nonoverlapping eIF4A binding domain exists in the carboxy-terminal third (aa 1045 to 1404) of eIF4G, which is not present in yeast. The C-terminal two-thirds region (aa 457 to 1404) of eIF4G, containing both eIF4A binding sites, is required for stimulating translation. Neither one of the eIF4A binding domains alone activates translation. In contrast to eIF4G, human p97, a translation inhibitor with homology to eIF4G, binds eIF4A only through the amino-terminal proximal region, which is homologous to the middle domain of eIF4G.
9372953	Functional interaction of a novel cellular protein with the papillomavirus E2 transactivation domain.	The transactivation domain (AD) of bovine papillomavirus type 1 E2 stimulates gene expression and DNA replication. To identify cellular proteins that interact with this 215-amino-acid domain, we used a transactivation-defective mutant as bait in the yeast two-hybrid screen. In vitro and in vivo results demonstrate that the cDNA of one plasmid isolated in this screen encodes a 37-kDa nuclear protein that specifically binds to an 82-amino-acid segment within the E2 AD. Mutants with point mutations within this E2 domain were isolated based on their inability to interact with AMF-1 and were found to be unable to stimulate transcription. These mutants also exhibited defects in viral DNA replication yet retained binding to the viral E1 replication initiator protein. Overexpression of AMF-1 stimulated transactivation by both wild-type E2 and a LexA fusion to the E2 AD, indicating that AMF-1 is a positive effector of the AD of E2. We conclude that interaction with AMF-1 is necessary for the transcriptional activation function of the E2 AD in mammalian cells.
9372966	CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha regulates p21 protein and hepatocyte proliferation in newborn mice.	CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBP alpha) is expressed at high levels in quiescent hepatocytes and in differentiated adipocytes. In cultured cells, C/EBP alpha inhibits cell proliferation in part via stabilization of the p21 protein. The role of C/EBP alpha in regulating hepatocyte proliferation in vivo is presented herein. In C/EBP alpha knockout newborn mice, p21 protein levels are reduced in the liver, and the fraction of hepatocytes synthesizing DNA is increased. Greater than 30% of the hepatocytes in C/EBP alpha knockout animals continue to proliferate at day 17 of postnatal life when cell division in wild-type littermates is low (3%). p21 protein levels are relatively high in wild-type neonates but undetectable in C/EBP alpha knockout mice. The reduction of p21 protein in the highly proliferating livers that lack C/EBP alpha suggests that p21 is responsible for C/EBP alpha-mediated control of liver proliferation in newborn mice. During rat liver regeneration, the amounts of both C/EBP alpha and p21 proteins are decreased before DNA synthesis (6 to 12 h) and then return to presurgery levels at 48 h. Although C/EBP alpha controls p21 protein levels, p21 mRNA is not influenced by C/EBP alpha in liver. Using coimmunoprecipitation and a mammalian two-hybrid assay system, we have shown the interaction of C/EBP alpha and p21 proteins. Study of p21 stability in liver nuclear extracts showed that C/EBP alpha blocks proteolytic degradation of p21. Our data demonstrate that C/EBP alpha regulates hepatocyte proliferation in newborn mice and that in liver, the level of p21 protein is under posttranscriptional control, consistent with the hypothesis that protein-protein interaction with C/EBP alpha determines p21 levels.
9374493	The human papillomavirus E7 oncoprotein functionally interacts with the S4 subunit of the 26 S proteasome.	Human papillomaviruses (HPV) have been etiologically linked to human cervical cancer. More than 90% of cervical cancer tissues express two HPV-encoded oncoproteins E6 and E7. Both E6 and E7 proteins possess transformation activity. and together they cooperate to transform primary human keratinocytes, fibroblasts. and epithelial cells. The transforming activity of E7 is associated with its ability to bind the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein (Rb). However, the carboxyl-terminal mutants of E7 are also defective for transformation, suggesting that other cellular targets for E7 might exist. We screened a human placenta cDNA library by yeast two-hybrid assay using HPV 16 E7 as a bait and identified the subunit 4 (S4) ATPase of the 26 S proteasome as a novel E7-binding protein. E7 binds to S4 through the carboxyl-terminal zinc binding motif, and the binding is independent of E7 sequences involved in binding to Rb. The interaction between S4 and E7 can be easily detected by in vitro protein binding assays. Moreover, we found that E7 increases the ATPase activity of S4. A recent study has shown that, in epithelial cells, E7 degrades Rb through the 26 S proteasome pathway. We hypothesize that E7 might target Rb for degradation by 26 S proteasome through its interaction with the subunit 4 of the proteasome.
9374535	The sorting route of cytochrome b2 branches from the general mitochondrial import pathway at the preprotein translocase of the inner membrane.	Cytochrome b2 is synthesized in the cytosol with a bipartite presequence. The first part of the presequence targets the protein to mitochondria and mediates translocation into the mitochondrial matrix compartment; the second part contains the sorting signal that is required for delivery of the protein to the intermembrane space. The localization of the structures that recognize the sorting signal is unclear. Here we show that upon import in vivo, the sorting signal of cytochrome b2 causes an early divergence from the general matrix import pathway and thereby prevents translocation of a folded C-terminal domain into mitochondria. By co-immunoprecipitations we find that translocation intermediates of cytochrome b2 are associated with Tim23, a component of the inner membrane protein import machinery. Cytochrome b2 constructs with an alteration in the sorting signal are mistargeted to the matrix of wild-type mitochondria. In mitochondria containing a mutant form of Tim23, however, the translocation of the altered sorting signal across the inner membrane is inhibited, and cytochrome b2 is correctly sorted to the intermembrane space. We suggest that the sorting signal of cytochrome b2 is recognized within the inner membrane in close vicinity to Tim23.
9380701	CLARP, a death effector domain-containing protein interacts with caspase-8 and regulates apoptosis.	We have identified and characterized CLARP, a caspase-like apoptosis-regulatory protein. Sequence analysis revealed that human CLARP contains two amino-terminal death effector domains fused to a carboxyl-terminal caspase-like domain. The structure and amino acid sequence of CLARP resemble those of caspase-8, caspase-10, and DCP2, a Drosophila melanogaster protein identified in this study. Unlike caspase-8, caspase-10, and DCP2, however, two important residues predicted to be involved in catalysis were lost in the caspase-like domain of CLARP. Analysis with fluorogenic substrates for caspase activity confirmed that CLARP is catalytically inactive. CLARP was found to interact with caspase-8 but not with FADD/MORT-1, an upstream death effector domain-containing protein of the Fas and tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 signaling pathway. Expression of CLARP induced apoptosis, which was blocked by the viral caspase inhibitor p35, dominant negative mutant caspase-8, and the synthetic caspase inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-(OMe)-fluoromethylketone (zVAD-fmk). Moreover, CLARP augmented the killing ability of caspase-8 and FADD/MORT-1 in mammalian cells. The human clarp gene maps to 2q33. Thus, CLARP represents a regulator of the upstream caspase-8, which may play a role in apoptosis during tissue development and homeostasis.
9384562	Structure of the complex of leech-derived tryptase inhibitor (LDTI) with trypsin and modeling of the LDTI-tryptase system.	BACKGROUND: Tryptase is a trypsin-like serine proteinase stored in the cytoplasmic granules of mast cells, which has been implicated in a number of mast cell related disorders such as asthma and rheumatoid arthritis. Unlike almost all other serine proteinases, tryptase is fully active in plasma and in the extracellular space, as there are no known natural inhibitors of tryptase in humans. Leech-derived tryptase inhibitor (LDTI), a protein of 46 amino acids, is the first molecule found to bind tightly to and specifically inhibit human tryptase in the nanomolar range. LDTI also inhibits trypsin and chymotrypsin with similar affinities. The structure of LDTI in complex with an inhibited proteinase could be used as a template for the development of low molecular weight tryptase inhibitors. RESULTS: The crystal structure of the complex between trypsin and LDTI was solved at 2.0 A resolution and a model of the LDTI-tryptase complex was created, based on this X-ray structure. LDTI has a very similar fold to the third domain of the turkey ovomucoid inhibitor. LDTI interacts with trypsin almost exclusively through its binding loop (residues 3-10) and especially through the sidechain of the specificity residue Lys8. Our modeling studies indicate that these interactions are maintained in the LDTI-tryptase complex. CONCLUSIONS: The insertion of nine residues after residue 174 in tryptase, relative to trypsin and chymotrypsin, prevents inhibition by other trypsin inhibitors and is certainly responsible for the higher specificity of tryptase relative to trypsin. In LDTI, the disulfide bond between residues 4 and 25 causes a sharp turn from the binding loop towards the N terminus, holding the N terminus away from the 174 loop of tryptase.
9388192	STAT3 acts as a co-activator of glucocorticoid receptor signaling.	Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and glucocorticoids are important mediators of inflammatory and immunological responses. Glucocorticoids are known to synergistically enhance IL-6-mediated cellular responses. We now show that IL-6 also has a synergistic effect upon glucocorticoid signaling. In particular, IL-6-activated STAT3 associates with ligand-bound glucocorticoid receptor to form a transactivating/signaling complex, which can function through either an IL-6-responsive element or a glucocorticoid-responsive element. These findings reveal a new level of interaction between these two crucial signaling cascades and indicate that activated STAT3 can also act as a transcriptional co-activator without direct association with its DNA binding motif.
9388200	The MDM2 C-terminal region binds to TAFII250 and is required for MDM2 regulation of the cyclin A promoter.	MDM2 proto-oncogene expression is aberrant in many human tumors. Its normal role is to modulate the functions of p53. The N terminus of MDM2 interacts with p53, whereas the properties of the rest of the molecule are poorly understood. We show that MDM2 binds to the general transcription factor TFIID in vivo. The C-terminal Ring finger interacts with TAFII250/CCG1, and the central acidic domain interacts with TBP. Expression of MDM2 activates the cyclin A gene promoter but not c-fos, showing that the effects of MDM2 are specific. Deletion of the C-terminal region of MDM2 abolishes activation, showing that the C-terminal domain of MDM2 is functionally important. We found that increasing MDM2 expression to higher levels inhibits the cyclin A promoter. Inhibition appears to result from titration of general transcription factors because MDM2 overexpression inhibits c-fos as well as other promoters in vivo and basal transcription in vitro. The mechanisms of repression of the cyclin A and fos promoters appear to be different. Cyclin A repression is lost by deleting the C terminus, whereas that of c-fos is lost by removal of the acidic domain. These results reinforce the conclusion that the C terminus of MDM2 mediates effects on the cyclin A promoter. MDM2 transformed cells contain elevated levels of cyclin A mRNA, showing that activation occurs under physiological conditions. There is a positive correlation between MDM2 binding to TAFII250 and MDM2 activation of the cyclin A promoter. The C-terminal region of MDM2, which contains the Ring finger, interacts with TAFII250 and is required for regulation of the cyclin A promoter by MDM2. Our results link the activity of MDM2, a transforming protein implicated in many human tumors, with cyclin A, a regulator of the cell cycle.
9390557	Cytochrome c and dATP-dependent formation of Apaf-1/caspase-9 complex initiates an apoptotic protease cascade.	We report here the purification of the third protein factor, Apaf-3, that participates in caspase-3 activation in vitro. Apaf-3 was identified as a member of the caspase family, caspase-9. Caspase-9 and Apaf-1 bind to each other via their respective NH2-terminal CED-3 homologous domains in the presence of cytochrome c and dATP, an event that leads to caspase-9 activation. Activated caspase-9 in turn cleaves and activates caspase-3. Depletion of caspase-9 from S-100 extracts diminished caspase-3 activation. Mutation of the active site of caspase-9 attenuated the activation of caspase-3 and cellular apoptotic response in vivo, indicating that caspase-9 is the most upstream member of the apoptotic protease cascade that is triggered by cytochrome c and dATP.
9393860	MAP kinases with distinct inhibitory functions impart signaling specificity during yeast differentiation.	Filamentous invasive growth of S. cerevisiae requires multiple elements of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascade that are also components of the mating pheromone response pathway. Here we show that, despite sharing several constituents, the two pathways use different MAP kinases. The Fus3 MAPK regulates mating, whereas the Kss1 MAPK regulates filamentation and invasion. Remarkably, in addition to their kinase-dependent activation functions, Kss1 and Fus3 each have a distinct kinase-independent inhibitory function. Kss1 inhibits the filamentation pathway by interacting with its target transcription factor Ste12. Fus3 has a different inhibitory activity that prevents the inappropriate activation of invasion by the pheromone response pathway. In the absence of Fus3, there is erroneous crosstalk in which mating pheromone now activates filamentation-specific gene expression using the Kss1 MAPK.
9395493	beta-dystrobrevin, a new member of the dystrophin family. Identification, cloning, and protein associations.	Dystrophin, the protein disrupted in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, is one of several related proteins that are key components of the submembrane cytoskeleton. Three dystrophin-related proteins (utrophin, dystrophin-related protein-2 (DRP2), and dystrobrevin) have been described. Here, we identify a human gene on chromosome 2p22-23 that encodes a novel protein, beta-dystrobrevin, with significant homology to the other known dystrobrevin (now termed alpha-dystrobrevin). Sequence alignments including this second dystrobrevin strongly support the concept that two distinct subfamilies exist within the dystrophin family, one composed of dystrophin, utrophin, and DRP2 and the other composed of alpha- and beta-dystrobrevin. The possibility that members of each subfamily form distinct protein complexes was examined by immunopurifying dystrobrevins and dystrophin. A beta-dystrobrevin antibody recognized a protein of the predicted size (71 kDa) that copurified with the dystrophin short form, Dp71. Thus, like alpha-dystrobrevin, beta-dystrobrevin is likely to associate directly with dystrophin. alpha- and beta-dystrobrevins failed to copurify with each other, however. These results suggest that members of the dystrobrevin subfamily form heterotypic associations with dystrophin and raise the possibility that pairing of a particular dystrobrevin with dystrophin may be regulated, thereby providing a mechanism for assembly of distinct submembrane protein complexes.
9398684	BIM1 encodes a microtubule-binding protein in yeast.	A previously uncharacterized yeast gene (YER016w) that we have named BIM1 (binding to microtubules) was obtained from a two-hybrid screen of a yeast cDNA library using as bait the entire coding sequence of TUB1 (encoding alpha-tubulin). Deletion of BIM1 results in a strong bilateral karyogamy defect, hypersensitivity to benomyl, and aberrant spindle behavior, all phenotypes associated with mutations affecting microtubules in yeast, and inviability at extreme temperatures (i.e., >/=37 degrees C or </=14 degrees C). Overexpression of BIM1 in wild-type cells is lethal. A fusion of Bim1p with green fluorescent protein that complements the bim1Delta phenotypes allows visualization in vivo of both intranuclear spindles and extranuclear microtubules in otherwise wild-type cells. A bim1 deletion displays synthetic lethality with deletion alleles of bik1, num1, and bub3 as well as a limited subset of tub1 conditional-lethal alleles. A systematic study of 51 tub1 alleles suggests a correlation between specific failure to interact with Bim1p in the two-hybrid assay and synthetic lethality with the bim1Delta allele. The sequence of BIM1 shows substantial similarity to sequences from organisms across the evolutionary spectrum. One of the human homologues, EB1, has been reported previously as binding APC, itself a microtubule-binding protein and the product of a gene implicated in the etiology of human colon cancer.
9403694	Miranda directs Prospero to a daughter cell during Drosophila asymmetric divisions.	Asymmetric cell division is a general process used in many developmental contexts to create two differently fated cells from a single progenitor cell. Intrinsic mechanisms like the asymmetric transmission of cell-fate determinants during cell division, and extrinsic cell-interaction mechanisms, can mediate asymmetric divisions. During embryonic development of the Drosophila central nervous system, neural stem cells called neuroblasts divide asymmetrically to produce another multipotent neuroblast and a ganglion mother cell (GMC) of more restricted developmental potential. Intrinsic mechanisms promote asymmetric division of neuroblasts: for example, the transcription factor Prospero localizes to the basal cell cortex of mitotic neuroblasts and then segregates exclusively into the GMC, which buds off from the basal side of the neuroblast. In the GMC, Prospero translocates to the nucleus, where it establishes differential gene expression between sibling cells. Here we report the identification of a gene, miranda, which encodes a new protein that co-localizes with Prospero in mitotic neuroblasts, tethers Prospero to the basal cortex of mitotic neuroblasts, directing Prospero into the GMC, and releases Prospero from the cell cortex within GMCs. miranda thus creates intrinsic differences between sibling cells by mediating the asymmetric segregation of a transcription factor into only one daughter cell during neural stem-cell division.
9405049	X-ray structure of motor and neck domains from rat brain kinesin.	We have determined the X-ray structure of rat kinesin head and neck domains. The folding of the core motor domain resembles that of human kinesin reported recently [Kull, F. J., et al. (1996) Nature 380, 550-554]. Novel features of the structure include the N-terminal region, folded as a beta-strand, and the C-terminal transition from the motor to the rod domain, folded as two beta-strands plus an alpha-helix. This helix is the beginning of kinesin's neck responsible for dimerization of the motor complex and for force transduction. Although the folding of the motor domain core is similar to that of a domain of myosin (an actin-dependent motor), the position and angle of kinesin's neck are very different from those of myosin's stalk, suggesting that the two motors have different mechanisms of force transduction. The N- and C-terminal ends of the core motor, thought to be responsible for the directionality of the motors [Case, R. B., et al. (1997) Cell 90, 959-966], take the form of beta-strands attached to the central beta-sheet of the structure.
9405338	Immune versus natural selection: antibody aldolases with enzymic rates but broader scope.	Structural and mechanistic studies show that when the selection criteria of the immune system are changed, catalytic antibodies that have the efficiency of natural enzymes evolve, but the catalytic antibodies are much more accepting of a wide range of substrates. The catalytic antibodies were prepared by reactive immunization, a process whereby the selection criteria of the immune system are changed from simple binding to chemical reactivity. This process yielded aldolase catalytic antibodies that approximated the rate acceleration of the natural enzyme used in glycolysis. Unlike the natural enzyme, however, the antibody aldolases catalyzed a variety of aldol reactions and decarboxylations. The crystal structure of one of these antibodies identified the reactive lysine residue that was selected in the immunization process. This lysine is deeply buried in a hydrophobic pocket at the base of the binding site, thereby accounting for its perturbed pKa.
9405395	Specific interaction of the PDZ domain protein PICK1 with the COOH terminus of protein kinase C-alpha.	PICK1 is a protein kinase C (PKC) alpha-binding protein initially identified using the yeast two-hybrid system. Here we report that PICK1 contains a PDZ domain that interacts specifically with a previously unidentified PDZ-binding domain (QSAV) at the extreme COOH terminus of PKCalpha and that mutation of a putative carboxylate-binding loop within the PICK1 PDZ domain abolishes this interaction. The PDZ-binding domain in PKCalpha is absent from other PKC isoforms that do not interact with PICK1. We also demonstrate that PICK1 can homooligomerize through sequences that are distinct from the carboxylate-binding loop, suggesting that self-association and PKCalpha binding are not mutually exclusive. A Caenorhabditis elegans PICK1-like protein is also able to bind to PKCalpha, suggesting a conservation of function through evolution. Association of PKCalpha with PICK1 provides a potential mechanism for the selective targeting of PKCalpha to unique subcellular sites.
9405416	c-Jun NH2-terminal kinases target the ubiquitination of their associated transcription factors.	Regulatory proteins are often ubiquitinated, depending on their phosphorylation status as well as on their association with ancillary proteins that serve as adapters of the ubiquitination machinery. We previously demonstrated that c-Jun is targeted for ubiquitination by its association with inactive c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK). Phosphorylation by activated JNK protects c-Jun from ubiquitination, thus by prolonging its half-life. In the study reported here, we determined the ability of JNK to target ubiquitination of its other substrates (Elk1 and activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2)) and associated proteins (ATF2 and JunB). We demonstrate that phosphorylation by JNK protects ATF2, but not Elk1, from JNK-targeted ubiquitination. We also show that association of inactive JNK with JunB or ATF2 is necessary to target them for ubiquitination. Unlike its targeting of c-Jun, JNK requires additional cellular components, yet to be identified, to target the ubiquitination of ATF2. Elk1 is phosphorylated by JNK, but JNK neither associates with nor targets Elk1 for ubiquitination. The implications for the dual role of JNK in the regulation of ubiquitination and stability of c-Jun, ATF2, and JunB in normally growing versus stressed cells are discussed.
9407065	The WW domain of neural protein FE65 interacts with proline-rich motifs in Mena, the mammalian homolog of Drosophila enabled.	The neural protein FE65 contains two types of protein-protein interaction modules: one WW binding domain and two phosphotyrosine binding domains. The carboxyl-terminal phosphotyrosine binding domain of FE65 interacts in vivo with the beta-amyloid precursor protein, which is implicated in Alzheimer disease. To understand the function of this adapter protein, we identified binding partners for the FE65 WW domain. Proline-rich sequences sharing a proline-proline-leucine-proline core motif were recovered by screening expression libraries for ligands of the FE65 WW domain. Five proteins of molecular masses 60, 75, 80, 140, and 200 kDa could be purified from mouse brain lysates by affinity to the FE65 WW domain. We identified two of these five proteins as the 80- and 140-kDa isoforms encoded by Mena, the mammalian homolog of the Drosophila Enabled gene. Using the SPOTs technique of peptide synthesis, we identified the sequences in Mena that interact with the FE65 WW domain and found that they contain the signature proline-proline-leucine-proline motif. Finally, we demonstrated that Mena binds to FE65 in vivo by coimmunoprecipitation assay from COS cell extracts. The specificity of the Mena-FE65 WW domain association was confirmed by competition assays. Further characterization of the FE65-Mena complex may identify a physiological role for these proteins in beta-amyloid precursor protein biogenesis and may help in understanding the mechanism of molecular changes that underlie Alzheimer disease.
9407112	Cooperative and competitive protein interactions at the hsp70 promoter.	Drosophila heat shock factor (HSF) binds to specific sequence elements of heat shock genes and can activate their transcription 200-fold. Though HSF has an acidic activation domain, the mechanistic details of heat shock gene activation remain undefined. Here we report that HSF interacts directly with the general transcription factor TBP (TATA-box binding protein), and these two factors bind cooperatively to heat shock promoters. A third factor that binds heat shock promoters, GAGA factor, also interacts with HSF and further stabilizes HSF binding to heat shock elements (HSEs). The interaction of HSF and TBP is explored in some detail here and is shown to be mediated by residues in both the amino- and carboxyl-terminal portions of HSF. This HSF/TBP interaction can be specifically disrupted by competition with the potent acidic transcriptional activator VP16. We further show that the acidic domain of the largest subunit of Drosophila RNA polymerase II (Pol II) associates with TBP in vitro and is specifically displaced from TBP upon addition of HSF. The region of TBP that mediates both HSF and Pol II acidic domain binding maps to the conserved carboxyl-terminal repeats and depends on at least one of the TBP residues known to be contacted by VP16 and to be critical for transcription activation. We discuss these findings in the context of a model in which HSF triggers hsp70 transcription by freeing the hsp70 promoter-paused Pol II from the constraints on elongation caused by the affinity of Pol II for general transcription factors.
9407131	The bovine papillomavirus E6 protein binds to the LD motif repeats of paxillin and blocks its interaction with vinculin and the focal adhesion kinase.	The bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1) E6 oncoprotein can transform fibroblasts and induce anchorage-independent growth and disassembly of the actin stress fibers. We have previously shown that the E6 protein interacts with the focal adhesion protein, paxillin, suggesting a direct role of E6 in the disruption of the actin cytoskeleton. We have now mapped the E6 binding sites on paxillin to the LD motif repeats region, which has been implicated in mediating paxillin binding to two other focal adhesion proteins, vinculin and the focal adhesion kinase. The five LD motif repeats identified in paxillin do not contribute equally to its interaction with E6. The first LD repeat is most critical for paxillin binding to E6 both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, the binding of recombinant wild-type E6 protein to paxillin blocked the interaction of several cellular proteins with paxillin, including vinculin and the focal adhesion kinase. A mutant E6 protein (H105) which does not bind to paxillin had no effect on the binding of these cellular proteins to paxillin. These data suggest that E6 disruption of the actin stress fibers occurs through blocking the interaction of paxillin with its cellular effectors such as vinculin and the focal adhesion kinase.
9412493	Interaction of muscle and brain sodium channels with multiple members of the syntrophin family of dystrophin-associated proteins.	Syntrophins are cytoplasmic peripheral membrane proteins of the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DAPC). Three syntrophin isoforms, alpha1, beta1, and beta2, are encoded by distinct genes. Each contains two pleckstrin homology (PH) domains, a syntrophin-unique (SU) domain, and a PDZ domain. The name PDZ comes from the first three proteins found to contain repeats of this domain (PSD-95, Drosophila discs large protein, and the zona occludens protein 1). PDZ domains in other proteins bind to the C termini of ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors containing the consensus sequence (S/T)XV-COOH and mediate the clustering or synaptic localization of these proteins. Two voltage-gated sodium channels (NaChs), SkM1 and SkM2, of skeletal and cardiac muscle, respectively, have this consensus sequence. Because NaChs are sarcolemmal components like syntrophins, we have investigated possible interactions between these proteins. NaChs copurify with syntrophin and dystrophin from extracts of skeletal and cardiac muscle. Peptides corresponding to the C-terminal 10 amino acids of SkM1 and SkM2 are sufficient to bind detergent-solubilized muscle syntrophins, to inhibit the binding of native NaChs to syntrophin PDZ domain fusion proteins, and to bind specifically to PDZ domains from alpha1-, beta1-, and beta2-syntrophin. These peptides also inhibit binding of the syntrophin PDZ domain to the PDZ domain of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, an interaction that is not mediated by C-terminal sequences. Brain NaChs, which lack the (S/T)XV consensus sequence, also copurify with syntrophin and dystrophin, an interaction that does not appear to be mediated by the PDZ domain of syntrophin. Collectively, our data suggest that syntrophins link NaChs to the actin cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix via dystrophin and the DAPC.
9413984	Solution structure of the KIX domain of CBP bound to the transactivation domain of CREB: a model for activator:coactivator interactions.	The nuclear factor CREB activates transcription of target genes in part through direct interactions with the KIX domain of the coactivator CBP in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. The solution structure of the complex formed by the phosphorylated kinase-inducible domain (pKID) of CREB with KIX reveals that pKID undergoes a coil-->helix folding transition upon binding to KIX, forming two alpha helices. The amphipathic helix alphaB of pKID interacts with a hydrophobic groove defined by helices alpha1 and alpha3 of KIX. The other pKID helix, alphaA, contacts a different face of the alpha3 helix. The phosphate group of the critical phosphoserine residue of pKID forms a hydrogen bond to the side chain of Tyr-658 of KIX. The structure provides a model for interactions between other transactivation domains and their targets.
9413990	Crystallographic analysis of anti-p24 (HIV-1) monoclonal antibody cross-reactivity and polyspecificity.	The X-ray crystal structures of an anti-p24 (HIV-1) monoclonal antibody Fab fragment alone and in complexes with the epitope peptide GATPQDLNTnL (n = norleucine), an epitope-homologous peptide GATPEDLNQKLAGN, as well as two unrelated peptides GLYEWGGARITNTD and efslkGpllqwrsG (D-peptide), are presented to a maximum resolution of 2.6 A. The latter three peptides were identified from screening synthetic combinatorial peptide libraries. Although all peptides bind to the same antigen combining site, the nonhomologous peptides adopt different binding conformations and also form their critical contacts with different antibody residues. Only small readjustments are observed within the framework of the Fab fragment upon binding.
9417052	Intermolecular NH2-/carboxyl-terminal interactions in androgen receptor dimerization revealed by mutations that cause androgen insensitivity.	Structural alignment of the human androgen receptor dimer was investigated by introducing steroid binding domain mutations that cause partial or complete androgen insensitivity into fusion proteins containing the full-length androgen receptor or the steroid binding domain. Most of the mutants had unchanged apparent equilibrium androgen binding affinity and increased dissociation rates of [3H]methyltrienolone and required increased dihydrotestosterone concentrations for transcriptional activation. In a 2-hybrid protein interaction assay in mammalian cells, the steroid binding domain interacts with an NH2-terminal-DNA binding domain fragment and with the full-length androgen receptor at physiological androgen concentrations in a dose-dependent manner. However, mutations at Val-889 and Arg-752 disrupt the NH2-/carboxyl-terminal interaction when introduced into the steroid binding domain fragment but not when present in the full-length androgen receptor. The N-C bimolecular interaction reduces the dissociation rate of bound androgen and slows the degradation rate of the carboxyl-terminal steroid binding domain fragment. The results suggest that steroid binding domain residues Val-889 and Arg-752 are critical to the NH2-/carboxyl-terminal interaction and that an intermolecular N-C interaction occurs during receptor dimerization that results in an antiparallel arrangement of androgen receptor monomers.
9417078	p140Sra-1 (specifically Rac1-associated protein) is a novel specific target for Rac1 small GTPase.	Rac1 small GTPase plays pivotal roles in various cell functions such as cell morphology, cell polarity, and cell proliferation. We have previously identified IQGAP1 from bovine brain cytosol as a target for Rac1 by an affinity purification method. By using the same method, we purified a specifically Rac1-associated protein with a molecular mass of about 140 kDa (p140) from bovine brain cytosol. This protein interacted with guanosine 5'-(3-O-thio)triphosphate (GTPgammaS).glutathione S-transferase (GST)-Rac1 but not with the GDP.GST-Rac1, GTPgammaS.GST-Cdc42, or GTPgammaS.GST-RhoA. The amino acid sequences of this protein revealed that p140 is identified as a product of KIAA0068 gene. We denoted this protein as Sra-1 (Specifically Rac1-associated protein). Recombinant Sra-1 interacted with GTPgammaS.GST-Rac1 and weakly with GDP.Rac1 but not with GST-Cdc42 or GST-RhoA. The N-terminal domain of Sra-1 (1-407 amino acids) was responsible for the interaction with Rac1. Myc-tagged Sra-1 and the deletion mutant capable of interacting with Rac1, but not the mutants unable to bind Rac1, were colocalized with dominant active Rac1(Val-12) and cortical actin filament at the Rac1(Val-12)-induced membrane ruffling area in KB cells. Sra-1 was cosedimented with filamentous actin (F-actin), indicating that Sra-1 directly interacts with F-actin. These results suggest that Sra-1 is a novel and specific target for Rac1.
9417867	Multiple protein: protein interactions between the snRNP common core proteins.	The snRNP core proteins (B, D3, D2, D1, E, F, and G) assemble with snRNA and form the snRNP core particle with a suggested stoichiometry of B2[D1, D2(E, F, G)2]D3. The newly synthesized snRNP core proteins are stored in the cytoplasm in three RNA-free complexes of (1) B at 2S-6S; (2) [D1, D2(E, F, G)2] at 6S; and (3) (B, D3, and 69 kDa) at 20S. The snRNP proteins assemble stepwise with snRNAs that appear transiently in the cytoplasm before returning to the nucleus as mature snRNP particles. In this report, two approaches are used to investigate the protein:protein interactions between the snRNP proteins. First, the 6S and 20S cytoplasmic complexes chromatographed as intact structures, supporting their identifications as discrete complexes. Second, the cDNAs for the proteins were used to test all pair-wise interactions between the seven major core proteins using the yeast two-hybrid system. The two-hybrid system identified four strong reciprocal interactions, one weak reciprocal interaction, five one-way interactions, and one homotypic interaction. The strongest interactions were between proteins within the 6S particle. Other interactions were between proteins in the 6S and 20S particles or within the 20S particle itself. These interactions are likely to occur within the cytoplasmic snRNP core protein complexes and the mature snRNP particle.
9418906	Numb-associated kinase interacts with the phosphotyrosine binding domain of Numb and antagonizes the function of Numb in vivo.	During asymmetric cell division, the membrane-associated Numb protein localizes to a crescent in the mitotic progenitor and is segregated predominantly to one of the two daughter cells. We have identified a putative serine/threonine kinase, Numb-associated kinase (Nak), which interacts physically with the phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain of Numb. The PTB domains of Shc and insulin receptor substrate bind to an NPXY motif which is not present in the region of Nak that interacts with Numb PTB domain. We found that the Numb PTB domain but not the Shc PTB domain interacts with Nak through a peptide of 11 amino acids, implicating a novel and specific protein-protein interaction. Overexpression of Nak in the sensory organs causes both daughters of a normally asymmetric cell division to adopt the same cell fate, a transformation similar to the loss of numb function phenotype and opposite the cell fate transformation caused by overexpression of Numb. The frequency of cell fate transformation is sensitive to the numb gene dosage, as expected from the physical interaction between Nak and Numb. These findings indicate that Nak may play a role in cell fate determination during asymmetric cell divisions.
9420248	Interaction of the bovine papillomavirus E6 protein with the clathrin adaptor complex AP-1.	The E6 gene of the bovine papillomavirus type 1 (BPV-1) is expressed in fibropapillomas caused by BPV-1 and in tissue culture cells transformed by BPV-1. It encodes one of the two major oncoproteins of BPV-1. In this study, we demonstrate an interaction between the BPV-1 E6 protein and AP-1, the TGN (trans-Golgi network)-specific clathrin adaptor complex. AP-1 is a four-subunit protein complex required for clathrin-mediated cellular transport from the TGN. The AP-1/E6 interaction was observed in vitro and in cells. The E6 binding site on AP-1 was mapped to the N-terminal trunk domain of the gamma subunit. BPV-1 E6 preferentially associated with membrane-bound AP-1 in cells but not with free cytosolic AP-1. BPV-1 E6 was further shown to be recruited to isolated Golgi membranes and to copurify with clathrin-coated vesicles. The recruitment of BPV-1 E6 to Golgi membranes was AP-1 independent, but the E6 interaction with AP-1 was required for its association with clathrin-coated vesicles. Furthermore, AP-1 proteins could compete with BPV-1 E6 for binding to Golgi membranes, suggesting that the recruitment of BPV-1 E6 and AP-1 to Golgi membranes involves a common factor. Taken together, our results suggest that cytosolic BPV-1 E6 is first recruited to the TGN, where it is then recognized by membrane-bound AP-1 and subsequently recruited into TGN-derived clathrin-coated vesicles. We propose that BPV-1 E6, through its interaction with AP-1, can affect cellular processes involving clathrin-mediated trafficking pathway.
9422506	A caspase-activated DNase that degrades DNA during apoptosis, and its inhibitor ICAD.	The homeostasis of animals is regulated not only by the growth and differentiation of cells, but also by cell death through a process known as apoptosis. Apoptosis is mediated by members of the caspase family of proteases, and eventually causes the degradation of chromosomal DNA. A caspase-activated deoxyribonuclease (CAD) and its inhibitor (ICAD) have now been identified in the cytoplasmic fraction of mouse lymphoma cells. CAD is a protein of 343 amino acids which carries a nuclear-localization signal; ICAD exists in a long and a short form. Recombinant ICAD specifically inhibits CAD-induced degradation of nuclear DNA and its DNase activity. When CAD is expressed with ICAD in COS cells or in a cell-free system, CAD is produced as a complex with ICAD: treatment with caspase 3 releases the DNase activity which causes DNA fragmentation in nuclei. ICAD therefore seems to function as a chaperone for CAD during its synthesis, remaining complexed with CAD to inhibit its DNase activity; caspases activated by apoptotic stimuli then cleave ICAD, allowing CAD to enter the nucleus and degrade chromosomal DNA.
9422736	Identification and characterization of a novel protein interacting with Ral-binding protein 1, a putative effector protein of Ral.	Ral-binding protein 1 (RalBP1) is a putative effector protein of Ral and exhibits a GTPase activating activity for Rac and CDC42. To clarify the function of RalBP1, we isolated a novel protein that interacts with RalBP1 by yeast two-hybrid screening and designated it POB1 (partner of RalBP1). POB1 consists of 521 amino acids, shares a homology with Eps15, which has been identified as an epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor substrate, and has two proline-rich motifs. The POB1 mRNA was expressed in cerebrum, cerebellum, lung, kidney, and testis. POB1 interacted with RalBP1 in COS cells and the C-terminal region of POB1 was responsible for this interaction. The binding domain of RalBP1 to POB1 was distinct from its binding domain to Ral. Ral and POB1 simultaneously interacted with RalBP1 in COS cells. The binding of POB1 to RalBP1 did not affect the GTPase activating activity of RalBP1. Furthermore, POB1 bound to Grb2 but not to Nck or Crk. POB1 was tyrosine-phosphorylated in COS cells upon stimulation with EGF and made a complex with EGF receptor. These results suggest that RalBP1 makes a complex with POB1 and that this complex may provide a link between tyrosine kinase, Src homology 3 (SH3)-containing protein, and Ral.
9425086	Binding of purified 14-3-3 zeta signaling protein to discrete amino acid sequences within the cytoplasmic domain of the platelet membrane glycoprotein Ib-IX-V complex.	The glycoprotein (GP) Ib-IX-V complex constitutively expressed on the platelet plasma membrane mediates initial adhesion of circulating platelets to vessel wall matrix at high shear, and shear-induced platelet aggregation. In both cases, this involves binding of GP Ib-IX-V to the adhesive glycoprotein, von Willebrand Factor (vWF). vWF binding to GP Ib-IX-V rapidly induces platelet activation, leading to cytoskeletal rearrangement, shape change, and secretion that enables alphaIIbbeta3 integrin (GP IIb-IIIa)-dependent platelet aggregation. All these events are critical in (patho)physiological thrombus formation. The recent discovery that the signaling protein, 14-3-3 zeta, copurifies with the GP Ib-IX complex (minus GP V) [Du, X., Harris, S. J., Tetaz, T. J., Ginsberg, M. H., & Berndt, M. C. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 18287-18290] indicated a potential mechanism for vWF-dependent signaling. The aim of the present study was to identify discrete amino acid sequences that bind 14-3-3 zeta within the cytoplasmic domain of the receptor. As an initial screening assay, overlapping synthetic peptides based on the cytoplasmic domains of GP Ibalpha (100 residues), GP Ibbeta (34 residues), GP IX (5 residues), and GP V (16 residues) were immobilized and assessed for the ability to bind purified 14-3-3 zeta. The C-terminal sequence GHSL of GP Ibalpha was identified as one 14-3-3 zeta interactive sequence, consistent with previous results [Du, X., Fox, J. E., & Pei, S. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 7362-7367]. Binding of 125I-labeled 14-3-3 zeta to GHSL-containing peptides was inhibitable by unlabeled 14-3-3 zeta and by anti-14-3-3 zeta IgG. Ala-walking through the GHSL sequence suggested all residues were necessary for optimal binding. In addition, 14-3-3 zeta bound with lower affinity to a peptide based on the central region of the GP Ibalpha cytoplasmic domain (Arg-557-Gly-575), whereas peptide sequences within the cytoplasmic domains of GP Ibbeta (Arg-160-Arg-175) and GP V (Lys-529-Gly-544) bound 14-3-3 zeta with comparable affinity to the GHSL-containing peptide. Soluble GHSL-containing peptides, GP Ibbeta- and GP V-based peptides semidissociated 14-3-3 zeta from GP Ib-IX-V or GP Ib-IX in platelet extracts as analyzed by immunoprecipitation, suggesting these sequences, at least partially, mediate the GP Ib-IX-V-14-3-3 zeta interaction in cells. Further, phosphorylation of the GP Ibbeta peptide at a site corresponding to a protein kinase A phosphorylation site (Ser-166) enhanced the affinity of 14-3-3 zeta binding by approximately 8-fold, suggesting phosphorylation as a potential mechanism for regulating 14-3-3 zeta association with the GP Ib-IX-V complex.
9430630	Bim: a novel member of the Bcl-2 family that promotes apoptosis.	Certain members of the Bcl-2 family inhibit apoptosis while others facilitate this physiological process of cell death. An expression screen for proteins that bind to Bcl-2 yielded a small novel protein, denoted Bim, whose only similarity to any known protein is the short (nine amino acid) BH3 motif shared by most Bcl-2 homologues. Bim provokes apoptosis, and the BH3 region is required for Bcl-2 binding and for most of its cytotoxicity. Like Bcl-2, Bim possesses a hydrophobic C-terminus and localizes to intracytoplasmic membranes. Three Bim isoforms, probably generated by alternative splicing, all induce apoptosis, the shortest being the most potent. Wild-type Bcl-2 associates with Bim in vivo and modulates its death function, whereas Bcl-2 mutants that lack survival function do neither. Significantly, Bcl-xL and Bcl-w, the two closest homologues of Bcl-2, also bind to Bim and inhibit its activity, but more distant viral homologues, adenovirus E1B19K and Epstein-Barr virus BHRF-1, can do neither. Hence, Bim appears to act as a 'death ligand' which can only neutralize certain members of the pro-survival Bcl-2 sub-family.
9434108	Protein-protein interaction between the RVS161 and RVS167 gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	As previous studies indicated that the RVS161 and RVS167 gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae seem to be involved in the same cellular function, we considered the possibility of a complex between the proteins encoded by these two genes. Using the two hybrid system, we have shown that Rvs167p interacts with Rvs161p, through its N-terminal domain which contains predicted coiled-coil structures. Moreover, if a tagged Rvs 167p protein was immuno adsorbed under non-denaturing conditions, it brought along the Rvs161p protein. These results confirmed the hypothesis of an in vivo complex between the two proteins.
9437013	Interaction of presenilins with the filamin family of actin-binding proteins.	Mutations in presenilin genes PS1 and PS2 account for approximately 50% of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). The PS1 and PS2 genes encode highly homologous transmembrane proteins related to the Caenorhabditis elegans sel-12 and spe-4 gene products. A hydrophilic loop region facing the cytoplasmic compartment is likely to be functionally important because at least 14 mutations in FAD patients have been identified in this region. We report here that the loop regions of PS1 and PS2 interact with nonmuscle filamin (actin-binding protein 280, ABP280) and a structurally related protein (filamin homolog 1, Fh1). Overexpression of PS1 appears to modify the distribution of ABP280 and Fh1 proteins in cultured cells. A monoclonal antibody recognizing ABP280 and Fh1 binds to blood vessels, astrocytes, neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads, and dystrophic neurites in the AD brain. Detection of ABP280/Fh1 proteins in these structures suggests that these presenilin-interacting proteins may be involved in the development of AD and that interactions between presenilins and ABP280/Fh1 may be functionally significant. The ABP280 gene is located on the human X chromosome, whereas the newly identified Fh1 gene maps to human chromosome 3. These results provide a new basis for understanding the function of presenilin proteins and further implicate cytoskeletal elements in AD pathogenesis.
9440688	Crystal structure of a bacteriophage T7 DNA replication complex at 2.2 A resolution.	DNA polymerases change their specificity for nucleotide substrates with each catalytic cycle, while achieving error frequencies in the range of 10(-5) to 10(-6). Here we present a 2.2 A crystal structure of the replicative DNA polymerase from bacteriophage T7 complexed with a primer-template and a nucleoside triphosphate in the polymerase active site. The structure illustrates how nucleotides are selected in a template-directed manner, and provides a structural basis for a metal-assisted mechanism of phosphoryl transfer by a large group of related polymerases.
9442029	Identification of the eukaryotic initiation factor 5A as a retinoic acid-stimulated cellular binding partner for tissue transglutaminase II.	GTP-binding protein/transglutaminases (tissue transglutaminases or TGases) have been implicated in a variety of cellular processes including retinoic acid (RA)-induced apoptosis. Recently, we have shown that RA activates TGases as reflected by stimulated GTP binding, increased membrane association, and stimulated phosphoinositide lipid turnover. This prompted us to search for cellular proteins that bind TGases in a RA-stimulated manner. In this report, we show that the eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF-5A), a protein that is essential for cell viability, perhaps through effects on protein synthesis and/or RNA export, associates with the TGase in vivo. The interaction between eIF-5A and TGase is specific for the GDP-bound form of the TGase and is not detected when the TGase is pre-loaded with GTP gamma S. The TGase-eIF-5A interaction also is promoted by Ca2+, Mg2+, and RA treatment of HeLa cells. In the presence of retinoic acid, millimolar levels of Ca2+ are no longer required for the TGase-eIF-5A interaction. Nocodazole treatment, which blocks the cell cycle at mitosis (M phase), strongly inhibits the interaction between eIF-5A and cytosolic TGase. The interaction between TGase and eIF-5A and its sensitivity to the nucleotide-occupied state of the TGase provides a potentially interesting connection between RA signaling and protein synthesis and/or RNA trafficking activities.
9442054	DNA-dependent protein kinase interacts with antigen receptor response element binding proteins NF90 and NF45.	The DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) is composed of a large catalytic subunit of approximately 470 kDa (DNA-PKcs) and the DNA-binding protein, Ku. Absence of DNA-PK activity confers sensitivity to x-rays and defects in both DNA double-strand break repair and V(D)J recombination. However the precise function of DNA-PK in DNA double-strand break repair is not known. Here we show, using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, that polypeptides in a fraction purified from human cells interact with DNA-PK and stabilize the formation of a complex containing DNA-PKcs-Ku and DNA. Five polypeptides in this fraction have been identified by amino-terminal sequence analysis and/or immunoblotting. These proteins are NF90 and NF45, which are the 90- and 45-kDa subunits of a protein known to bind specifically to the antigen receptor response element of the interleukin 2 promoter, and the alpha, beta, and gamma subunits of eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF-2. We also show that NF90, NF45, and eIF-2 beta are substrates for DNA-PK in vitro. In addition, recombinant NF90 promotes formation of a complex between DNA-PKcs, Ku, and DNA, and antibodies to recombinant NF90 or recombinant NF45 immunoprecipitate DNA-PKcs in vitro. Together, our data suggest that NF90, in complex with NF45, interacts with DNA-PKcs and Ku on DNA and that NF90 and NF45 may be important for the function of DNA-PK.
9442085	Rack1, a receptor for activated protein kinase C, interacts with integrin beta subunit.	The integrin beta subunit cytoplasmic domains are important for activation-dependent cell adhesion and adhesion-dependent signaling events. We report an interaction between integrin beta subunit cytoplasmic domain and Rack1, a Trp-Asp (WD) repeat protein that has been shown to bind activated protein kinase C. The Rack1-binding site on integrin beta 2 subunit resides within a conserved, membrane-proximal region. In the yeast two-hybrid assay, WD repeats five to seven of Rack1 (Rack1-WD5/7) interact with integrin beta 1, beta 2, and beta 5 cytoplasmic domain. In eukaryotic cells, Rack1 co-immunoprecipitates with at least two different beta integrins, beta 1 integrins in 293T cells and beta 2 integrins in JY lymphoblastoid cells. Whereas Rack1-WD5/7 binds integrins constitutively, the association of full-length Rack1 to integrins in vivo requires a treatment with phorbol esters, which promotes cell spreading and adhesion. These findings suggest that Rack1 may link protein kinase C directly to integrins and participate in the regulation of integrin functions.
9445475	Transcription factor-specific requirements for coactivators and their acetyltransferase functions.	Different classes of mammalian transcription factors-nuclear receptors, cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated enhancer binding protein (CREB), and signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT-1)-functionally require distinct components of the coactivator complex, including CREB-binding protein (CBP/p300), nuclear receptor coactivators (NCoAs), and p300/CBP-associated factor (p/CAF), based on their platform or assembly properties. Retinoic acid receptor, CREB, and STAT-1 also require different histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activities to activate transcription. Thus, transcription factor-specific differences in configuration and content of the coactivator complex dictate requirements for specific acetyltransferase activities, providing an explanation, at least in part, for the presence of multiple HAT components of the complex.
9447982	Regulation of interferon-induced protein kinase PKR: modulation of P58IPK inhibitory function by a novel protein, P52rIPK.	The cellular response to environmental signals is largely dependent upon the induction of responsive protein kinase signaling pathways. Within these pathways, distinct protein-protein interactions play a role in determining the specificity of the response through regulation of kinase function. The interferon-induced serine/threonine protein kinase, PKR, is activated in response to various environmental stimuli. Like many protein kinases, PKR is regulated through direct interactions with activator and inhibitory molecules, including P58IPK, a cellular PKR inhibitor. P58IPK functions to represses PKR-mediated phosphorylation of the eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha subunit (eIF-2alpha) through a direct interaction, thereby relieving the PKR-imposed block on mRNA translation and cell growth. To further define the molecular mechanism underlying regulation of PKR, we have utilized an interaction cloning strategy to identify a novel cDNA encoding a P58IPK-interacting protein. This protein, designated P52rIPK, possesses limited homology to the charged domain of Hsp90 and is expressed in a wide range of cell lines. P52rIPK and P58IPK interacted in a yeast two-hybrid assay and were recovered as a complex from mammalian cell extracts. When coexpressed with PKR in yeast, P58IPK repressed PKR-mediated eIF-2alpha phosphorylation, inhibiting the normally toxic and growth-suppressive effects associated with PKR function. Conversely, introduction of P52rIPK into these strains resulted in restoration of both PKR activity and eIF-2alpha phosphorylation, concomitant with growth suppression due to inhibition of P58IPK function. Furthermore, P52rIPK inhibited P58IPK function in a reconstituted in vitro PKR-regulatory assay. Our results demonstrate that P58IPK is inhibited through a direct interaction with P52rIPK which, in turn, results in upregulation of PKR activity. Taken together, our data describe a novel protein kinase-regulatory system which encompasses an intersection of interferon-, stress-, and growth-regulatory pathways.
9450960	14-3-3 proteins act as negative regulators of the mitotic inducer Cdc25 in Xenopus egg extracts.	Cdc25, the dual-specificity phosphatase that dephosphorylates the Cdc2-cyclin B complex at mitosis, is highly regulated during the cell cycle. In Xenopus egg extracts, Cdc25 is associated with two isoforms of the 14-3-3 protein. Cdc25 is complexed primarily with 14-3-3epsilon and to a lesser extent with 14-3-3zeta. The association of these 14-3-3 proteins with Cdc25 varies dramatically during the cell cycle: binding is high during interphase but virtually absent at mitosis. Interaction with 14-3-3 is mediated by phosphorylation of Xenopus Cdc25 at Ser-287, which resides in a consensus 14-3-3 binding site. Recombinant Cdc25 with a point mutation at this residue (Cdc25-S287A) is incapable of binding to 14-3-3. Addition of the Cdc25-S287A mutant to Xenopus egg extracts accelerates mitosis and overrides checkpoint-mediated arrests of mitotic entry due to the presence of unreplicated and damaged DNA. These findings indicate that 14-3-3 proteins act as negative regulators of Cdc25 in controlling the G2-M transition.
9452471	14-3-3 proteins interact with specific MEK kinases.	MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase) kinases (MEKKs) regulate c-Jun N-terminal kinase and extracellular response kinase pathways. The 14-3-3zeta and 14-3-3epsilon isoforms were isolated in a two-hybrid screen for proteins interacting with the N-terminal regulatory domain of MEKK3. 14-3-3 proteins bound both the N-terminal regulatory and C-terminal kinase domains of MEKK3. The binding affinity of 14-3-3 for the MEKK3 N terminus was 90 nM, demonstrating a high affinity interaction. 14-3-3 proteins also interacted with MEKK1 and MEKK2, but not MEKK4. Endogenous 14-3-3 protein and MEKK1 and MEKK2 were similarly distributed in the cell, consistent with their in vitro interactions. MEKK1 and 14-3-3 proteins colocalized using two-color digital confocal immunofluorescence. Binding of 14-3-3 proteins mapped to the N-terminal 393 residues of 196-kDa MEKK1. Unlike MEKK2 and MEKK3, the C-terminal kinase domain of MEKK1 demonstrated little or no ability to interact with 14-3-3 proteins. MEKK1, but not MEKK2, -3 or -4, is a caspase-3 substrate that when cleaved releases the kinase domain from the N-terminal regulatory domain. Functionally, caspase-3 cleavage of MEKK1 releases the kinase domain from the N-terminal 14-3-3-binding region, demonstrating that caspases can selectively alter protein kinase interactions with regulatory proteins. With regard to MEKK1, -2 and -3, 14-3-3 proteins do not appear to directly influence activity, but rather function as "scaffolds" for protein-protein interactions.
9454836	Interaction of huntingtin-associated protein with dynactin P150Glued.	Huntingtin is the protein product of the gene for Huntington's disease (HD) and carries a polyglutamine repeat that is expanded in HD (>36 units). Huntingtin-associated protein (HAP1) is a neuronal protein and binds to huntingtin in association with the polyglutamine repeat. Like huntingtin, HAP1 has been found to be a cytoplasmic protein associated with membranous organelles, suggesting the existence of a protein complex including HAP1, huntingtin, and other proteins. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we found that HAP1 also binds to dynactin P150(Glued) (P150), an accessory protein for cytoplasmic dynein that participates in microtubule-dependent retrograde transport of membranous organelles. An in vitro binding assay showed that both huntingtin and P150 selectively bound to a glutathione transferase (GST)-HAP1 fusion protein. An immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated that P150 and huntingtin coprecipitated with HAP1 from rat brain cytosol. Western blot analysis revealed that HAP1 was enriched in rat brain microtubules and comigrated with P150 and huntingtin in sucrose gradients. Immunofluorescence showed that transfected HAP1 colocalized with P150 and huntingtin in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. We propose that HAP1, P150, and huntingtin are present in a protein complex that may participate in dynein-dynactin-associated intracellular transport.
9459447	CAPON: a protein associated with neuronal nitric oxide synthase that regulates its interactions with PSD95.	Nitric oxide (NO) produced by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is important for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent neurotransmitter release, neurotoxicity, and cyclic GMP elevations. The coupling of NMDA receptor-mediated calcium influx and nNOS activation is postulated to be due to a physical coupling of the receptor and the enzyme by an intermediary adaptor protein, PSD95, through a unique PDZ-PDZ domain interaction between PSD95 and nNOS. Here, we report the identification of a novel nNOS-associated protein, CAPON, which is highly enriched in brain and has numerous colocalizations with nNOS. CAPON interacts with the nNOS PDZ domain through its C terminus. CAPON competes with PSD95 for interaction with nNOS, and overexpression of CAPON results in a loss of PSD95/nNOS complexes in transfected cells. CAPON may influence nNOS by regulating its ability to associate with PSD95/NMDA receptor complexes.
9461436	The structure of GABPalpha/beta: an ETS domain- ankyrin repeat heterodimer bound to DNA.	GA-binding protein (GABP) is a transcriptional regulator composed of two structurally dissimilar subunits. The alpha subunit contains a DNA-binding domain that is a member of the ETS family, whereas the beta subunit contains a series of ankyrin repeats. The crystal structure of a ternary complex containing a GABPalpha/beta ETS domain-ankyrin repeat heterodimer bound to DNA was determined at 2. 15 angstrom resolution. The structure shows how an ETS domain protein can recruit a partner protein using both the ETS domain and a carboxyl-terminal extension and provides a view of an extensive protein-protein interface formed by a set of ankyrin repeats. The structure also reveals how the GABPalpha ETS domain binds to its core GGA DNA-recognition motif.
9461559	Regulation of Rad51 function by c-Abl in response to DNA damage.	The Rad51 protein, a homolog of bacterial RecA, functions in DNA double-strand break repair and genetic recombination. Whereas Rad51 catalyzes ATP-dependent pairing and strand exchange between homologous DNA molecules, regulation of this function is unknown. The c-Abl tyrosine kinase is activated by ionizing radiation and certain other DNA-damaging agents. Here we demonstrate that c-Abl interacts constitutively with Rad51. We show that c-Abl phosphorylates Rad51 on Tyr-54 in vitro. The results also show that treatment of cells with ionizing radiation induces c-Abl-dependent phosphorylation of Rad51. Phosphorylation of Rad51 by c-Abl inhibits the binding of Rad51 to DNA and the function of Rad51 in ATP-dependent DNA strand exchange reactions. These findings represent the first demonstration that Rad51 is regulated by phosphorylation and support a functional role for c-Abl in regulating Rad51-dependent recombination in the response to DNA damage.
9463375	In mouse brain profilin I and profilin II associate with regulators of the endocytic pathway and actin assembly.	Profilins are thought to be essential for regulation of actin assembly. However, the functions of profilins in mammalian tissues are not well understood. In mice profilin I is expressed ubiquitously while profilin II is expressed at high levels only in brain. In extracts from mouse brain, profilin I and profilin II can form complexes with regulators of endocytosis, synaptic vesicle recycling and actin assembly. Using mass spectrometry and database searching we characterized a number of ligands for profilin I and profilin II from mouse brain extracts including dynamin I, clathrin, synapsin, Rho-associated coiled-coil kinase, the Rac-associated protein NAP1 and a member of the NSF/sec18 family. In vivo, profilins co-localize with dynamin I and synapsin in axonal and dendritic processes. Our findings strongly suggest that in brain profilin I and profilin II complexes link the actin cytoskeleton and endocytic membrane flow, directing actin and clathrin assembly to distinct membrane domains.
9466902	The SV40 capsid protein VP3 cooperates with the cellular transcription factor Sp1 in DNA-binding and in regulating viral promoter activity.	Chromatin structure and protein-protein interactions play an important role in eukaryotic gene function. Nucleosomal rearrangement at the simian virus 40 (SV40) regulatory region occurs at the late stages of the viral life cycle preceding viral assembly. The SV40 capsid proteins are required for this nucleosomal rearrangement suggesting that they participate in turning-off the viral promoters. In aiming to elucidate the role of the capsid proteins in gene regulation, we studied the interaction between VP3, an internal capsid protein, and the cellular transcription factor Sp1, a major regulator of both the early and late viral promoters. Our results showed that VP3 repressed transcription from the viral early promoter in vitro. We found significant cooperativity between Sp1 and VP3 in specific DNA-binding to the Sp1 binding site. In addition, protein-protein interactions between VP3 and Sp1 in the absence of DNA were observed. These findings have led us to conclude that the novel host-viral Sp1-VP3 complex down regulates viral transcription and further suggest that Sp1 participates in recruiting VP3 to the SV40 minichromosome in SV40 assembly.
9466914	Kunitz-type soybean trypsin inhibitor revisited: refined structure of its complex with porcine trypsin reveals an insight into the interaction between a homologous inhibitor from Erythrina caffra and tissue-type plasminogen activator.	The Kunitz-type trypsin inhibitor from soybean (STI) consists of 181 amino acid residues with two disulfide bridges. Its crystal structures have been determined in complex with porcine pancreatic trypsin in two crystal forms (an orthorhombic form at 1.75 A resolution and a tetragonal form at 1.9 A) and in the free state at 2.3 A resolution. They have been refined to crystallographic R-values of 18.9%, 21.6% and 19.8%, respectively. The three models of STI reported here represent a significant improvement over the partial inhibitor structure in the complex, which was previously determined at a nominal resolution of 2.6 A by the multiple isomorphous replacement method. This study provides the first high-resolution picture of the complex between a Kunitz-type proteinase inhibitor with its cognate proteinase. Many of the external loops of STI show high B-factors, both in the free and the complexed states, except the reactive site loop whose B-factors are dramatically reduced upon complexation. The reactive site loop of STI adopts a canonical conformation similar to those in other substrate-like inhibitors. The P1 carbonyl group displays no out-of-plane displacement and thus retains a nominal trigonal planar geometry. Modeling studies on the complex between a homologous Kunitz-type trypsin inhibitor DE-3 from Erythrina caffra and the human tissue-type plasminogen activator reveal a new insight into the specific interactions which could play a crucial role in their binding.
9466992	Huntingtin interacts with cystathionine beta-synthase.	We have screened a rat brain library to identify proteins which interact with the 5'-end of huntingtin (amino acids 1-171), including the polyglutamine tract, in the yeast two-hybrid system. We detected an interaction with cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) [L-serine hydrolyase (adding homocysteine), EC 4.2.1.22], which was confirmed in vitro using His-tagged CBS expressed in Escherichia coli , which was able to specifically bind both rat and human full-length huntingtin. Neither normal nor expanded polyglutamine repeat alone interacted with CBS in the yeast two-hybrid system and nor did constructs containing SBMA or DRPLA with normal or expanded polyglutamine tracts. CBS therefore appears to bind specifically to huntingtin. CBS deficiency is associated with homocystinuria, which is known to affect various physiological systems, including the central nervous system. Homocysteine, one of the substrates of CBS, is known to accumulate in homocystinuria and is metabolized to homocysteate and homocysteine sulphinate, both known to be powerful excitotoxic amino acids. It has been suggested that Huntington's disease involves the action of excitotoxic amino acids and this interaction with CBS may suggest a mechanism for such excitotoxic damage.
9467941	Association of Bovine Papillomavirus Type 1 E6 oncoprotein with the focal adhesion protein paxillin through a conserved protein interaction motif.	We have found that the E6 oncoprotein of Bovine Papillomavirus Type 1 (BE6) as well as the E6 protein of the cancer associated HPV-16 (16E6) interact with the focal adhesion protein paxillin. Mutational analysis of paxillin revealed that BE6 binds paxillin through small protein interaction motifs called LD motifs that have been previously identified as important in regulating association of paxillin with vinculin and focal adhesion kinase (FAK), and that BE6 can interact with at least two separate binding sites on paxillin. The LD motifs of paxillin that bind BE6 share homology with the E6 binding site of E6-AP, a ubiquitin ligase that together with 16E6 targets the degradation of the p53 tumor suppressor. Paxillin binding to BE6 excludes simultaneous binding to E6-AP. Mutational analysis of BE6 can distinguish the interaction of BE6 with E6-AP compared to paxillin and revealed that the interaction of BE6 with paxillin may be necessary for the induction of anchorage independent growth of cells by BE6.
9468139	Retinoblastoma protein recruits histone deacetylase to repress transcription.	The retinoblastoma protein (Rb) silences specific genes that are active in the S phase of the cell cycle and which are regulated by E2F transcription factors. Rb binds to the activation domain of E2F and then actively represses the promoter by a mechanism that is poorly understood. Here we show that Rb associates with a histone deacetylase, HDAC1, through the Rb 'pocket' domain. Association with the deacetylase is reduced by naturally occurring mutations in the pocket and by binding of the human papilloma virus oncoprotein E7. We find that Rb can recruit histone deacetylase to E2F and that Rb cooperates with HDAC1 to repress the E2F-regulated promoter of the gene encoding the cell-cycle protein cyclin E. Inhibition of histone deacetylase activity by trichostatin A (TSA) inhibits Rb-mediated repression of a chromosomally integrated E2F-regulated promoter. Our results indicate that histone deacetylases are important for regulating the cell cycle and that active transcriptional repression by Rb may involve the modification of chromatin structure.
9468140	Retinoblastoma protein represses transcription by recruiting a histone deacetylase.	The retinoblastoma tumour-suppressor protein Rb inhibits cell proliferation by repressing a subset of genes that are controlled by the E2F family of transcription factors and which are involved in progression from the G1 to the S phase of the cell cycle. Rb, which is recruited to target promoters by E2F1, represses transcription by masking the E2F1 transactivation domain and by inhibiting surrounding enhancer elements, an active repression that could be crucial for the proper control of progression through the cell cycle. Some transcriptional regulators act by acetylating or deacetylating the tails protruding from the core histones, thereby modulating the local structure of chromatin: for example, some transcriptional repressors function through the recruitment of histone deacetylases. We show here that the histone deacetylase HDAC1 physically interacts and cooperates with Rb. In HDAC1, the sequence involved is an LXCXE motif, similar to that used by viral transforming proteins to contact Rb. Our results strongly suggest that the Rb/HDAC1 complex is a key element in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation and that it is a likely target for transforming viruses.
9468473	Monocyte chemotactic protein-2 activates CCR5 and blocks CD4/CCR5-mediated HIV-1 entry/replication.	Human immunodeficiency virus, type I (HIV-1) cell-type tropism is dictated by chemokine receptor usage: T-cell line tropic viruses use CXCR4, whereas monocyte tropic viruses primarily use CCR5 as fusion coreceptors. CC chemokines macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha, MIP-1beta, and RANTES (regulated on activation normal T cell expressed and secreted) inhibit CD4/CCR5-mediated HIV-1 cell fusion. MCP-2 is also a member of the CC chemokine subfamily and has the capacity to interact with at least two receptors including CCR-1 and CCR2B. In an effort to further characterize the binding properties of MCP-2 on leukocytes, we observed that MCP-2, but not MCP-1, effectively competed with MIP-1beta for binding to monocytes, suggesting that MCP-2 may interact with CCR5. As predicted, MCP-2 competitively inhibited MIP-1beta binding to HEK293 cells stably transfected with CCR5 (CCR5/293 cells). MCP-2 also bound to and induced chemotaxis of CCR5/293 cells with a potency comparable with that of MIP-1beta. Confocal microscopy indicates that MCP-2 caused remarkable and dose-dependent internalization of CCR5 in CCR5/293 cells. Furthermore, MCP-2 inhibited the entry/replication of HIV-1ADA in CCR5/293 cells coexpressing CD4. These results indicated that MCP-2 uses CCR5 as one of its functional receptors and is an additional potent natural inhibitor of HIV-1.
9468537	A rho-associated protein kinase, ROKalpha, binds insulin receptor substrate-1 and modulates insulin signaling.	Insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) is phosphorylated on multiple tyrosine residues by ligand-activated insulin receptors. These tyrosine phosphorylation sites serve to dock several Src homology 2-containing signaling proteins. In addition, IRS-1 contains a pleckstrin homology domain and a phosphotyrosine binding domain (PTB) implicated in protein-protein and protein-lipid interactions. In a yeast two-hybrid screening using Xenopus IRS-1 (xIRS-1) pleckstrin homology-PTB domains as bait, we identified a Xenopus homolog of Rho-associated kinase alpha (xROKalpha) as a potential xIRS-1-binding protein. The original clone contained the carboxyl terminus of xROKalpha (xROK-C) including the putative Rho binding domain but lacking the amino-terminal kinase domain. Further analyses in yeast indicated that xROK-C bound to the putative PTB domain of xIRS-1. Binding of xROK-C to xIRS-1 was confirmed in Xenopus oocytes after microinjection of mRNA corresponding to xROK-C. Furthermore, microinjection of xROK-C mRNA inhibited insulin-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase activation with a concomitant inhibition of oocyte maturation. In contrast, microinjection of xROK-C mRNA did not inhibit mitogen-activated protein kinase activation or oocyte maturation induced by progesterone or by microinjection of viral Ras (v-Ras) mRNA. These results suggest that xROKalpha may play a role in insulin signaling via a direct interaction with xIRS-1.
9469451	RANTES activation of phospholipase D in Jurkat T cells: requirement of GTP-binding proteins ARF and RhoA.	The chemokine RANTES is a potent agonist of T cell activation. In an investigation of signal-transduction events activated by this chemokine, we have shown that RANTES stimulates dose-dependent phospholipase D (PLD) activity in Jurkat cells. Equilibrium-binding analyses using 125I-labeled RANTES indicated the presence of a receptor for RANTES on these cells, which has a Kd of 0.1 nM, is expressed at approximately 600 sites per cell, and a binding specificity that was not comparable with that of any of the known chemokine receptors, since 125I-labeled RANTES was displaced by macrophage-inflammatory protein-1 beta (but not macrophage-inflammatory protein-1 alpha), monocyte-chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), MCP-3, MCP-4, and eotaxin. RANTES-induced PLD activation was augmented by GTP gamma S, but not GDP beta S, and inhibited by the protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide, as well as the fungal metabolite brefeldin A, and C3 exoenzyme (Clostridium botulinum), implicating the activation of RhoA. RANTES also induced GTP-GDP exchange of immunoprecipitated RhoA. RANTES-stimulated PLD activity was dependent on an ADP-ribosylation factor(s), as assessed by inhibition studies using a synthetic inhibitory peptide of the N-terminal 16 amino acids of ADP-ribosylation factor 1. These studies indicate the potential existence of a novel receptor-mediated mechanism for activation of T cells by the chemokine RANTES.
9472015	High mobility group protein-1 (HMG-1) is a unique activator of p53.	The binding of p53 protein to DNA is stimulated by its interaction with covalent as well as noncovalent modifiers. We report the identification of a factor from HeLa nuclear extracts that activates p53 DNA binding. This factor was purified to homogeneity and identified as the high mobility group protein, HMG-1. HMG-1 belongs to a family of highly conserved chromatin-associated nucleoproteins that bend DNA and facilitate the binding of various transcription factors to their cognate DNA sequences. We demonstrate that recombinant His-tagged HMG-1 enhances p53 DNA binding in vitro and also that HMG-1 and p53 can interact directly in vitro. Unexpectedly, HMG-1 also stimulates DNA binding by p53Delta30, a carboxy-terminally deleted form of the protein that is considered to be constitutively active, suggesting that HMG-1 stimulates p53 by a mechanism that is distinct from other known activators of p53. Finally, using transient transfection assays we show that HMG-1 can increase p53 and p53Delta30-mediated transactivation in vivo. HMG-1 promotes the assembly of higher order p53 nucleoprotein structures, and these data, along with the fact that HMG-1 is capable of bending DNA, suggest that HMG-1 may activate p53 DNA binding by a novel mechanism involving a structural change in the target DNA.
9482729	The mitotic peptidyl-prolyl isomerase, Pin1, interacts with Cdc25 and Plx1.	The cis/trans peptidyl-prolyl isomerase, Pin1, is a regulator of mitosis that is well conserved from yeast to man. Here we demonstrate that depletion of Pin1-binding proteins from Xenopus egg extracts results in hyperphosphorylation and inactivation of the key mitotic regulator, Cdc2/cyclin B. We show biochemically that this phenotype is a consequence of Pin1 interaction with critical upstream regulators of Cdc2/cyclin B, including the Cdc2-directed phosphatase, Cdc25, and its known regulator, Plx1. Although Pin1 could interact with Plx1 during interphase and mitosis, only the phosphorylated, mitotically active form of Cdc25 was able to bind Pin1, an event we have recapitulated using in vitro phosphorylated Cdc25. Taken together, these data suggest that Pin1 may modulate cell cycle control through interaction with Cdc25 and its activator, Plx1.
9482734	Axin, a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway, forms a complex with GSK-3beta and beta-catenin and promotes GSK-3beta-dependent phosphorylation of beta-catenin.	Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) mediates epidermal growth factor, insulin and Wnt signals to various downstream events such as glycogen metabolism, gene expression, proliferation and differentiation. We have isolated here a GSK-3beta-interacting protein from a rat brain cDNA library using a yeast two-hybrid method. This protein consists of 832 amino acids and possesses Regulators of G protein Signaling (RGS) and dishevelled (Dsh) homologous domains in its N- and C-terminal regions, respectively. The predicted amino acid sequence of this GSK-3beta-interacting protein shows 94% identity with mouse Axin, which recently has been identified as a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway; therefore, we termed this protein rAxin (rat Axin). rAxin interacted directly with, and was phosphorylated by, GSK-3beta. rAxin also interacted directly with the armadillo repeats of beta-catenin. The binding site of rAxin for GSK-3beta was distinct from the beta-catenin-binding site, and these three proteins formed a ternary complex. Furthermore, rAxin promoted GSK-3beta-dependent phosphorylation of beta-catenin. These results suggest that rAxin negatively regulates the Wnt signaling pathway by interacting with GSK-3beta and beta-catenin and mediating the signal from GSK-3beta to beta-catenin.
9482739	Prep1, a novel functional partner of Pbx proteins.	The human transcription factor, UEF3, is important in regulating the activity of the urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) gene enhancer. The UEF3 DNA target site is a regulatory element in the promoters of several growth factor and protease genes. We reported previously that purified UEF3 is a complex of several subunits. In this paper we report the cloning of the cDNA of one of the subunits which encodes for a novel human homeodomain protein, which we have termed Prep1. The Prep1 homeodomain belongs to the TALE class of homeodomains, is most closely related to those of the TGIF and Meis1 proteins, and like these, recognizes a TGACAG motif. We further identify the other UEF3 subunit as a member of the Pbx protein family. Unlike other proteins known to interact with Pbx, Prep1 forms a stable complex with Pbx independent of DNA binding. Heterodimerization of Prep1 and Pbx results in a strong DNA binding affinity towards the TGACAG target site of the uPA promoter. Overall, these data indicate that Prep1 is a stable intracellular partner of Pbx in vivo.
9482871	Oxa1p, an essential component of the N-tail protein export machinery in mitochondria.	A number of nuclear encoded inner membrane proteins of mitochondria span the membrane in such a manner that their N termini are located in the intermembrane space. Many of these proteins attain this membrane orientation by undergoing an export step from the matrix across the inner membrane. This export process, which resembles bacterial N-tail export from energetic and topogenic signal requirements, is facilitated by Oxa1p, a protein that has homologues throughout prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Oxa1p, as we have previously shown, is required to export the N and C termini of the mitochondrially encoded pCoxII to the intermembrane space. We demonstrate here that imported nuclear encoded proteins physically interact with Oxa1p and depend on Oxa1p for efficient export of their N termini to the intermembrane space. Furthermore, Oxa1p interacts with nascent polypeptide chains synthesized in mitochondria, including the fully synthesized pCoxII and CoxIII species. Thus, Oxa1p represents a component of a general export machinery of the mitochondrial inner membrane.
9482880	BRCA1 regulates p53-dependent gene expression.	Mutations in BRCA1 are present in 45% of families that segregate with susceptibility for breast cancer and in 80-90% of families with both breast and ovarian cancer. Here we report that BRCA1 stimulates artificial and genomic promoter constructs containing p53-responsive elements. This activity of BRCA1 depends on the presence of wild-type p53, which was shown by using mouse fibroblasts expressing temperature-sensitive forms of p53, or p53(+/+) and p53(-/-) fibroblasts obtained from p53 knockout mice. Furthermore, mutant forms of BRCA1 lacking the C-terminal second BRCA1 C-terminal (BRCT) domain showed reduced p53-mediated transcriptional activation. Finally, we found that BRCA1 coimmunoprecipitates with p53, in vitro and in vivo. These findings suggest a function of BRCA1 as a p53 coactivator.
9488668	Characterization of two polyubiquitin binding sites in the 26 S protease subunit 5a.	Ubiquitylated proteins are degraded by the 26 S protease, an enzyme complex that contains 30 or more unique subunits. One of these proteins, subunit 5a (S5a), has been shown to bind ubiquitin-lysozyme conjugates and free polyubiquitin chains. Using deletional analysis, we have identified in the carboxyl-terminal half of human S5a, two independent polyubiquitin binding sites whose sequences are highly conserved among higher eukaryotic S5a homologs. The sites are approximately 30-amino acids long and are separated by 50 intervening residues. When expressed as small fragments or when present in full-length S5a molecules, the sites differ at least 10-fold in their apparent affinity for polyubiquitin chains. Each binding site contains 5 hydrophobic residues that form an alternating pattern of large and small side chains, e.g. Leu-Ala-Leu-Ala-Leu, and this pattern is essential for binding ubiquitin chains. Based on the importance of the alternating hydrophobic residues in the binding sites and previous studies showing that a hydrophobic patch on the surface of ubiquitin is essential for proteolytic targeting, we propose a model for molecular recognition of polyubiquitin chains by S5a.
9488710	Tyrosine phosphorylation regulates the SH3-mediated binding of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein to PSTPIP, a cytoskeletal-associated protein.	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is an X-linked hematopoietic disease that manifests itself in platelet deficiency and a compromised immune system. Analysis of hematopoietic cells from affected individuals reveals that mutations in the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) result in structural and functional abnormalities in the cell cortex, consistent with the suggestion that WASP is involved with regulation of the actin-rich cortical cytoskeleton. Here we report that WASP interacts with a recently described cytoskeletal-associated protein, PSTPIP, a molecule that is related to the Schizosaccharomyces pombe cleavage furrow regulatory protein, CDC15p. This association is mediated by an interaction between the PSTPIP SH3 domain and two polyproline-rich regions in WASP. Co-expression of PSTPIP with WASP in vivo results in a loss of WASP-induced actin bundling activity and co-localization of the two proteins, which requires the PSTPIP SH3 domain. Analysis of tyrosine phosphorylation of PSTPIP reveals that two sites are modified in response to v-Src co-transfection or pervanadate incubation. One of these tyrosines is found in the SH3 domain poly-proline recognition site, and mutation of this tyrosine to aspartate or glutamate to mimic this phosphorylation state results in a loss of WASP binding in vitro and a dissolution of co-localization in vivo. In addition, PSTPIP that is tyrosine phosphorylated in the SH3 domain interacts poorly with WASP in vitro. These data suggest that the PSTPIP and WASP interaction is regulated by tyrosine phosphorylation of the PSTPIP SH3 domain, and this binding event may control aspects of the actin cytoskeleton.
9488720	Caspase-9, Bcl-XL, and Apaf-1 form a ternary complex.	Genetic analysis of apoptosis in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has revealed the cell death machine to be composed of three core interacting components. CED-4 (equivalent to mammalian Apaf-1) is a nucleotide binding molecule that complexes with the zymogen form of the death protease CED-3, leading to its autoactivation and cell death. CED-9 blocks death by complexing with CED-4 and attenuating its ability to promote CED-3 activation. An equivalent ternary complex was found to be present in mammalian cells involving Apaf-1, the mammalian death protease caspase-9, and Bcl-XL, an anti-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family. Consistent with a central role for caspase-9, a dominant negative form effectively inhibited cell death initiated by a wide variety of inducers.
9490724	MKBP, a novel member of the small heat shock protein family, binds and activates the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase.	Muscle cells are frequently subjected to severe conditions caused by heat, oxidative, and mechanical stresses. The small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) such as alphaB-crystallin and HSP27, which are highly expressed in muscle cells, have been suggested to play roles in maintaining myofibrillar integrity against such stresses. Here, we identified a novel member of the sHSP family that associates specifically with myotonic dystrophy protein kinase (DMPK). This DMPK-binding protein, MKBP, shows a unique nature compared with other known sHSPs: (a) In muscle cytosol, MKBP exists as an oligomeric complex separate from the complex formed by alphaB-crystallin and HSP27. (b) The expression of MKBP is not induced by heat shock, although it shows the characteristic early response of redistribution to the insoluble fraction like other sHSPs. Immunohistochemical analysis of skeletal muscle cells shows that MKBP localizes to the cross sections of individual myofibrils at the Z-membrane as well as the neuromuscular junction, where DMPK has been suggested to be concentrated. In vitro, MKBP enhances the kinase activity of DMPK and protects it from heat-induced inactivation. These results suggest that MKBP constitutes a novel stress-responsive system independent of other known sHSPs in muscle cells and that DMPK may be involved in this system by being activated by MKBP. Importantly, since the amount of MKBP protein, but not that of other sHSP family member proteins, is selectively upregulated in skeletal muscle from DM patients, an interaction between DMPK and MKBP may be involved in the pathogenesis of DM.
9491887	A novel CDK9-associated C-type cyclin interacts directly with HIV-1 Tat and mediates its high-affinity, loop-specific binding to TAR RNA.	The HIV-1 Tat protein regulates transcription elongation through binding to the viral TAR RNA stem-loop structure. We have isolated a novel 87 kDa cyclin C-related protein (cyclin T) that interacts specifically with the transactivation domain of Tat. Cyclin T is a partner for CDK9, an RNAPII transcription elongation factor. Remarkably, the interaction of Tat with cyclin T strongly enhances the affinity and specificity of the Tat:TAR RNA interaction, and confers a requirement for sequences in the loop of TAR that are not recognized by Tat alone. Moreover, overexpression of human cyclin T rescues Tat activity in nonpermissive rodent cells. We propose that Tat directs cyclin T-CDK9 to RNAPII through cooperative binding to TAR RNA.
9491888	Rb interacts with histone deacetylase to repress transcription.	Previously, we found that Rb can actively repress transcription of cell cycle genes by binding and inactivating transcription factors at the promoter. Here, we demonstrate that Rb can also repress transcription of endogenous cell cycle genes containing E2F sites through recruitment of histone deacetylase, which deacetylates histones on the promoter, thereby promoting formation of nucleosomes that inhibit transcription. These two mechanisms of repression by Rb are selective-some promoters and transcription factors are blocked by this recruitment of histone deacetylase, whereas others are resistant to histone deacetylase activity and are repressed directly by inhibition of transcription factors.
9492043	p53 regulates insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) receptor expression and IGF-I-induced tyrosine phosphorylation in an osteosarcoma cell line: interaction between p53 and Sp1.	The insulin-like growth factor-I receptor (IGF-IR) is involved in tumorigenesis. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the IGF-IR is a physiological target for p53 in osteosarcoma cells. The p53-induced regulation of IGF-IR levels was studied in a tetracycline-regulated expression system. When expressed in Saos-2, osteosarcoma cells that lack p53, wild-type p53 decreased, whereas mutated p53 increased IGF-IR expression, and IGF-I-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the IGF-IR. Similarly, wild-type p53 decreased IGF-I-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1. A functional and physical interaction between p53 and Sp1, in the regulation of the IGF-R, was studied in osteosarcoma cells. Expression of p53 decreased IGF-IR promoter activity, whereas no effect on promoter activity was seen by Sp1 expressed alone. However, Sp1 counteracted the inhibitory effect of p53 on IGF-IR promoter activity in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, wild-type and mutated p53 were coimmunoprecipitated with Sp1, indicating a physical interaction between p53 and Sp1. In conclusion, p53 regulates IGF-IR expression, as reflected by a reduction in IGF-IR protein and a parallel reduction in IGF-I-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the IGF-IR and IRS-1 in an osteosarcoma cell line. These data indicate that the IGF-I receptor is a physiological target for p53 in osteosarcoma cells. Furthermore, data supporting an interaction between p53 and Sp1 in the regulation of the promoter activity of IGF-IR are presented.
9495771	Localization of cell division protein FtsK to the Escherichia coli septum and identification of a potential N-terminal targeting domain.	Escherichia coli cell division protein FtsK is a homolog of Bacillus subtilis SpoIIIE and appears to act late in the septation process. To determine whether FtsK localizes to the septum, we fused three N-terminal segments of FtsK to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and expressed them in E. coli cells. All three segments were sufficient to target GFP to the septum, suggesting that as little as the first 15% of the protein is a septum-targeting domain. Localized fluorescence was detectable only in cells containing a visible midcell constriction, suggesting that FtsK targeting normally occurs only at a late stage of septation. The largest two FtsK-GFP fusions were able at least partially to complement the ftsK44 mutation in trans, suggesting that the N- and C-terminal domains are functionally separable. However, overproduction of FtsK-GFP resulted in a late-septation phenotype similar to that of ftsK44, with fluorescent dots localized at the blocked septa, suggesting that high levels of the N-terminal domain may still localize but also inhibit FtsK activity. Interestingly, under these conditions fluorescence was also sometimes localized as bands at potential division sites, suggesting that FtsK-GFP is capable of targeting very early. In addition, FtsK-GFP localized to potential division sites in cephalexin-induced and ftsI mutant filaments, further supporting the idea that FtsK-GFP can target early, perhaps by recognizing FtsZ directly. This hypothesis was supported by the failure of FtsK-GFP to localize in ftsZ mutant filaments. In ftsK44 mutant filaments, FtsA and FtsZ were usually localized to potential division sites between the blocked septa. When the ftsK44 mutation was incorporated into the FtsK-GFP fusions, localization to midcell ranged between very weak and undetectable, suggesting that the FtsK44 mutant protein is defective in targeting the septum.
9497340	Identification of a novel cytoplasmic protein that specifically binds to nuclear localization signal motifs.	Active transport of proteins into the nucleus is mediated by interaction between the classical nuclear localization signals (NLSs) of the targeted proteins and the NLS receptor (importin) complex. This nuclear transport system is highly regulated and conserved in eukaryotes and is essential for cell survival. Using a fragment of BRCA1 containing the two NLS motifs as a bait for yeast two-hybrid screening, we have isolated four clones, one of which is importin alpha. Here we characterize one of the other clones identified, BRAP2, which is a novel gene and expressed as a 2-kilobase mRNA in human mammary epithelial cells and some but not all tissues of mice. The isolated full-length cDNA encodes a novel protein containing 600 amino acid residues with pI 6.04. Characteristic motifs of C2H2 zinc fingers and leucine heptad repeats are present in the middle and C-terminal regions of the protein, respectively. BRAP2 also shares significant homology with a hypothetical protein from yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, especially in the zinc finger region. Antibodies prepared against the C-terminal region of BRAP2 fused to glutathione S-transferase specifically recognize a cellular protein with a molecular size of 68 kDa, consistent with the size of the in vitro translated protein. Cellular BRAP2 is mainly cytoplasmic and binds to the NLS motifs of BRCA1 with similar specificity to that of importin alpha in both two-hybrid assays in yeast and glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays in vitro. Other motifs such as the SV40 large T antigen NLS motif and the bipartite NLS motif found in mitosin are also recognized by BRAP2. Similarly, the yeast homolog of BRAP2 also binds to these NLS motifs in vitro. These results imply that BRAP2 may function as a cytoplasmic retention protein and play a role in regulating transport of nuclear proteins.
9499406	Interaction of recombinant Tetrahymena telomerase proteins p80 and p95 with telomerase RNA and telomeric DNA substrates.	Telomerase is a specialized reverse transcriptase that catalyzes telomeric repeat addition at the ends of existing telomeres or fragmented chromosomes. Two telomerase proteins from Tetrahymena thermophila, p80 and p95, were identified on the basis of their association with telomerase activity and telomerase RNA. Here we have produced recombinant versions of these proteins to characterize their functions in the ribonucleoprotein. Our findings indicate that the two proteins can form a complex whose association is independent of RNA. Each protein interacts directly with telomerase RNA, but the p80/p95 complex binds RNA with an affinity substantially greater than either protein alone. We have also characterized the DNA binding properties of p95 and show that it interacts with telomeric substrate DNAs with a specificity characteristic of the functionally defined Tetrahymena telomerase substrate anchor site. Together, these findings suggest a model in which protein-nucleic acid interactions separable from the active site contribute to positioning the template and primer, rather than exclusively the direct nucleic acid-active site interaction typical of other polymerases.
9506989	Grb10 interacts differentially with the insulin receptor, insulin-like growth factor I receptor, and epidermal growth factor receptor via the Grb10 Src homology 2 (SH2) domain and a second novel domain located between the pleckstrin homology and SH2 domains.	The Grb10 protein appears to be an adapter protein of unknown function that has been implicated in insulin receptor (IR) signaling. The interaction of this protein with the IR has been shown to be mediated in part by the Src homology 2 (SH2) domain of Grb10. Here we demonstrate the existence of a second novel domain within Grb10 that interacts with the IR and insulin-like growth factor receptor in a kinase-dependent manner. This domain was localized to a region of approximately 50 amino acids, and we term it the BPS domain to denote its location between the PH and SH2 domains. The BPS domain does not bear any obvious resemblance to other known protein interaction domains but is highly conserved among the Grb10-related proteins Grb7 and Grb14. We show that the BPS domain interaction is dependent upon receptor tyrosine kinase activity. Furthermore, interaction of the BPS domain requires the kinase domain of the IR, since mutation of the paired tyrosine residues (Y1150F/Y1151F) within the IR activation loop dramatically reduced the interaction. Last, our data suggest that the presence of two distinct protein interaction domains may help to determine the specificity by which Grb10 interacts with different receptors. Specifically, the IR, which appears to interact most strongly with Grb10, interacts well with both the SH2 and BPS domains. Conversely, the insulin-like growth factor receptor and EGFR, which interact less avidly with Grb10, interact well only with the BPS domain or the SH2 domain, respectively. In summary, our findings demonstrate the existence of a previously unidentified tyrosine kinase activity-dependent binding domain located between the Pleckstrin homology and SH2 domains of Grb10.
9507024	Secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine is a functional ligand for the CC chemokine receptor CCR7.	Secondary Lymphoid-tissue Chemokine (SLC) is a recently identified CC chemokine that is constitutively expressed in various lymphoid tissues and is a potent and specific chemoattractant for lymphocytes. The SLC gene and the gene encoding another lymphocyte-specific CC chemokine, EBI1-ligand chemokine (ELC), form a mini-cluster at human chromosome 9p13. Here, we show that SLC is a high affinity functional ligand for chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) that is expressed on T and B lymphocytes and a known receptor for ELC. SLC induced a vigorous calcium mobilization in murine L1.2 cells stably expressing human CCR7. SLC tagged with the secreted form of alkaline phosphatase (SLC-SEAP) showed specific binding to CCR7 that was fully competed by SLC with an IC50 of 0.5 nM. SLC also induced a vigorous chemotactic response in CCR7-expressing L1.2 cells with a typical bell-shaped dose-response curve and a maximal migration at 10 nM. When assessed using CCR7-transfected L1.2 cells, SLC and ELC were essentially equivalent in terms of cross desensitization in calcium mobilization via CCR7, cross-competition in binding to CCR7, and induction of chemotaxis via CCR7. SLC and ELC were also shown to fully share receptors expressed on cultured normal T cells known to express CCR7. Notably, however, SLC was somehow less efficient in cross-desensitization against ELC in calcium mobilization and in cross-competition with ELC for binding when assessed using cultured normal T cells. Thus, SLC and ELC, even though sharing only 32% amino acid identity, constitute a genetically and functionally highly related subgroup of CC chemokines.
9512352	Alpha1-syntrophin has distinct binding sites for actin and calmodulin.	Overlay and co-sedimentation assays using recombinant alpha1-syntrophin proteins revealed that two regions of alpha1-syntrophin, i.e. aa 274-315 and 449-505, contain high-affinity binding sites for F-actin (Kd 0.16-0.45 microM), although only a single high-affinity site (Kd 0.35 microM) was detected in the recombinant full-length syntrophin. We also found that actomyosin fractions prepared from both cardiac and skeletal muscle contain proteins recognized by anti-syntrophin antibody. These data suggest a novel role for syntrophin as an actin binding protein, which may be important for the function of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex or for other cell functions. We also found that alpha1-syntrophin binds calmodulin at two distinct sites with high (Kd 15 nM) and low (Kd 0.3 microM) affinity.
9512561	Interaction between the N-terminus of human topoisomerase I and SV40 large T antigen.	We have attempted to identify human topoisomerase I-binding proteins in order to gain information regarding the cellular roles of this protein and the cytotoxic mechanisms of the anticancer drug camptothecin, which specifically targets topoisomerase I. In the course of this work we identified an interaction between the N-terminus of human topoisomerase I and the SV40 T antigen that is detectable in vitro using both affinity chromatography and co-immunoprecipitation. Additional results indicate that this interaction does not require intermediary DNA or stoichiometric quantities of other proteins. Furthermore, the interaction is detectable in vivo using a yeast two-hybrid assay. Two binding sites for T antigen are apparent on the topoisomerase I protein: one consisting of amino acids 1-139, the other present in the 383-765 region of the protein. Interestingly, nucleolin, which binds the 166-210 region of topoisomerase I, is able to bind an N-terminal fragment of topoisomerase I concurrently with T antigen. Taken together with our prior identification of nucleolin as a topoisomerase I-binding protein, the current results suggest that helicase-binding is a major role of the N-terminus of human topoisomerase I and that the resultant helicase-topoisomerase complex may function as a eukaryotic gyrase.
9516488	Grb2 and its apoptotic isoform Grb3-3 associate with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C, and these interactions are modulated by poly(U) RNA.	Grb2 is an adaptor molecule comprising one Src homology (SH) 2 and two SH3 domains. This protein has a natural isoform named Grb3-3 with a deletion within the SH2 domain. Numerous evidence points to a functional connection between SH2- and SH3-containing proteins and molecules implicated in RNA biogenesis. In this context, we have examined the binding of Grb2 and Grb3-3 to heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) C. By the use of an in vivo genetic approach and through in vitro experiments, we furnish evidence that both Grb2 and Grb3-3 interact with hnRNP C proteins. Subcellular fractionation studies clearly show that Grb2 is partially localized in the nucleus. In addition, coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate that Grb2.hnRNP C complexes exist in intact hematopoietic cells. The carboxyl-terminal SH3 domains of Grb2 and Grb3-3 are primarily responsible for the association with hnRNP C. However, although the proline-rich motif of hnRNP C is involved in the interaction with Grb2, it is not in the binding to Grb3-3. Furthermore, poly(U) RNA inhibits the association of Grb2 with hnRNP C, whereas it enhances the interaction between Grb3-3 and hnRNP C. These findings suggest that the Grb2/Grb3-3-hnRNP C interactions might fulfill different biological functions.
9521068	Identification of the CC chemokines TARC and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 beta as novel functional ligands for the CCR8 receptor.	Chemokines are key molecules in directing leukocyte migration toward sites of inflammation. We have previously cloned a putative CC chemokine receptor gene, TER1, whose expression is restricted to lymphoid tissues and cell lines. Recently, this receptor has been shown to signal in response to the human CC chemokine I-309 and thus it has been renamed CCR8 according to the current nomenclature. In the present study, we report the identification of the CC chemokines thymus and activation-regulated cytokine (TARC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 beta (MIP-1 beta) as CCR8 ligands, as they induce chemotaxis in CCR8 Jurkat stable transfectants. Furthermore, we have generated a polyclonal antiserum that is able to recognize the CCR8 molecule in transfectant lysates. The pattern of CCR8 mRNA expression and the functional effects exerted by its ligand suggest that the triggering of this receptor may regulate multiple functions including activation, migration and proliferation of lymphoid cells.
9525610	Adenovirus preterminal protein binds to the CAD enzyme at active sites of viral DNA replication on the nuclear matrix.	Adenovirus (Ad) replicative complexes form at discrete sites on the nuclear matrix (NM) via an interaction mediated by the precursor of the terminal protein (pTP). The identities of cellular proteins involved in these complexes have remained obscure. We present evidence that pTP binds to a multifunctional pyrimidine biosynthesis enzyme found at replication domains on the NM. Far-Western blotting identified proteins of 150 and 240 kDa that had pTP binding activity. Amino acid sequencing of the 150-kDa band revealed sequence identity to carbamyl phosphate synthetase I (CPS I) and a high degree of homology to the related trifunctional enzyme known as CAD (for carbamyl phosphate synthetase, aspartate transcarbamylase, and dihydroorotase). Western blotting with an antibody directed against CAD detected a 240-kDa band that comigrated with that detected by pTP far-Western blotting. Binding experiments showed that a pTP-CAD complex was immunoprecipitable from cell extracts in which pTP was expressed by a vaccinia virus recombinant. Additionally, in vitro-translated epitope-tagged pTP and CAD were immunoprecipitable as a complex, indicating the occurrence of a protein-protein interaction. Confocal fluorescence microscopy of Ad-infected NM showed that pTP and CAD colocalized in nuclear foci. Both pTP and CAD were confirmed to colocalize with active sites of replication detected by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. These data support the concept that the pTP-CAD interaction may allow anchorage of Ad replication complexes in the proximity of required cellular factors and may help to segregate replicated and unreplicated viral DNA.
9525868	A single BIR domain of XIAP sufficient for inhibiting caspases.	The inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) constitute an evolutionarily conserved family of homologous proteins that suppress apoptosis induced by multiple stimuli. Some IAP family proteins, including XIAP, cIAP-1, and cIAP-2, can bind and directly inhibit selected caspases, a group of intracellular cell death proteases. These caspase-inhibiting IAP family proteins all contain three tandem BIR domains followed by a RING zinc finger domain. To determine the structural basis for caspase inhibition by XIAP, we analyzed the effects of various fragments of this IAP family protein on caspase activity in vitro and on apoptosis suppression in intact cells. The RING domain of XIAP failed to inhibit the activity of recombinant caspases-3 or -7, whereas a fragment of XIAP encompassing the three tandem BIR domains potently inhibited these caspases in vitro and blocked Fas (CD95)-induced apoptosis when expressed in cells. Further dissection of the XIAP protein demonstrated that only the second of the three BIR domains (BIR2) was capable of binding and inhibiting these caspases. The apparent inhibition constants (Ki) for BIR2-mediated inhibition of caspases-3 and -7 were 2-5 nM, indicating that this single BIR domain possesses potent anti-caspase activity. Expression of the BIR2 domain in cells also partially suppressed Fas-induced apoptosis and blocked cytochrome c-induced processing of caspase-9 in cytosolic extracts, whereas BIR1 and BIR3 did not. These findings identify BIR2 as the minimal caspase-inhibitory domain of XIAP and indicate that a single BIR domain can be sufficient for binding and inhibiting caspases.
9529148	Crystal structure of I-Ak in complex with a dominant epitope of lysozyme.	We have determined the structure of murine MHC class II I-Ak in complex with a naturally processed peptide from hen egg lysozyme (HEL residues 50-62) at 1.9 A resolution. These results provide a structural basis for the I-Ak peptide-binding motif. Binding is established by the deep burial of five anchor side chains into specific pockets of the I-Ak binding groove, with a zen-like fit of an aspartic acid in the P1 pocket. We also show that in the I-Ak alpha chain, a bulge occurs in the first strand of the peptide-binding platform, an insertion probably common to all I-A and HLA-DQ alleles. The I-Ak beta chain has a deletion in the helical region adjacent to the P7 pocket and an insertion in the helical region neighboring the P1 pocket. As a result of these structural features, the extended HEL peptide dips low into the center of the I-Ak groove and reaches toward solvent at its C-terminal end.
9529149	Crystal structures of two I-Ad-peptide complexes reveal that high affinity can be achieved without large anchor residues.	We have determined the structures of I-Ad covalently linked to an ovalbumin peptide (OVA323-339) and to an influenza virus hemagglutinin peptide (HA126-138). The floor of the peptide-binding groove contains an unusual beta bulge, not seen in I-E and DR structures, that affects numerous interactions between the alpha and beta chains and bound peptide. Unlike other MHC-peptide complexes, the peptides do not insert any large anchor residues into the binding pockets of the shallow I-Ad binding groove. The previously identified six-residue "core" binding motif of I-Ad occupies only the P4 to P9 pockets, implying that specificity of T cell receptor recognition of I-Ad-peptide complexes can be accomplished by peptides that only partially fill the MHC groove.
9529248	The Ink4a tumor suppressor gene product, p19Arf, interacts with MDM2 and neutralizes MDM2's inhibition of p53.	The INK4a gene encodes two distinct growth inhibitors--the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16Ink4a, which is a component of the Rb pathway, and the tumor suppressor p19Arf, which has been functionally linked to p53. Here we show that p19Arf potently suppresses oncogenic transformation in primary cells and that this function is abrogated when p53 is neutralized by viral oncoproteins and dominant-negative mutants but not by the p53 antagonist MDM2. This finding, coupled with the observations that p19Arf and MDM2 physically interact and that p19Rrf blocks MDM2-induced p53 degradation and transactivational silencing, suggests that p19Arf functions mechanistically to prevent MDM2's neutralization of p53. Together, our findings ascribe INK4a's potent tumor suppressor activity to the cooperative actions of its two protein products and their relation to the two central growth control pathways, Rb and p53.
9530559	Three-dimensional structure of a human Fab with high affinity for tetanus toxoid.	BACKGROUND: The wide range of antibody specificity and affinity results from the differing shapes and chemical compositions of their binding sites. These shapes range from discrete grooves in antibodies elicited by linear oligomers of nucleotides and carbohydrates to shallow depressions or flat surfaces for accommodation of proteins, peptides and large organic compounds. OBJECTIVES: To determine the Fab structure of a high-affinity human antitoxin antibody. To explore structural features which enable the antibody to bind to intact tetanus toxoid, peptides derived from the sequence of the natural immunogen and antigenic mimics identified by combinatorial chemistry. To explain why this Fab shows a remarkable tendency to produce crystals consistently diffracting to d spacings of 1.7-1.8 A. To use this information to engineer a strong tendency to crystallize into the design of other Fabs. STUDY DESIGN: The protein was crystallized in hanging or sitting drops by a microseeding technique in polyethylene glycol (PEG) 8000. Crystals were subjected to X-ray analysis and the three-dimensional structure of the Fab was determined by the molecular replacement method. Interactive computer graphics were employed to fit models to electron density maps, survey the structure in multiple views and discover the crystal packing motif of the protein. RESULTS: Exceptionally large single crystals of this protein have been obtained, one measuring 5 x 3 x 2 mm (l x w x d). The latter was cut into six irregular pieces, each retaining the features of the original in diffracting to high resolution (1.8 A) with little decay in the X-ray beam. In an individual Fab, the active site is relatively flat and it seems likely that the protein antigen and derivative peptides are tightly held on the outer surface without significant penetration into the interior. There is no free space to accommodate even a dipeptide between VH and VL. One of the unique features of the B7-15A2 Fab is a large aliphatic ridge dominating the center of the active site. The CDR3 of the H chain contributes significantly to this ridge, as well as to adjoining regions projected to be important for the docking of the antigen. Both the ease of crystallization and the favorable diffraction properties are mainly attributable to the tight packing of the protein molecules in the crystal lattice. DISCUSSION: The B7-15A2 active site provides a stable and well defined platform for high affinity docking of proteins, peptides and their mimotopes. The advantages for future developments are suggested by the analysis of the crystal properties. It should be possible to incorporate the features promoting crystallization, close packing and resistance to radiation damage into engineered human antibodies without altering the desired specificities and affinities of their active sites.
9531549	Pan1p, yeast eps15, functions as a multivalent adaptor that coordinates protein-protein interactions essential for endocytosis.	A genetic screen for factors required for endocytosis in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae previously identified PAN1. Pan1p is a homologue of the mammalian protein eps15, which has been implicated in endocytosis by virtue of its association with the plasma membrane clathrin adaptor complex AP-2. Pan1p contains two eps15 homology (EH) domains, a protein-protein interaction motif also present in other proteins that function in membrane trafficking. To address the role of Pan1p and EH domains in endocytosis, a yeast two-hybrid screen was performed using the EH domain-containing region of Pan1p. This screen identified yAP180A, one of two yeast homologues of a class of clathrin assembly proteins (AP180) that exhibit in vitro clathrin cage assembly activity. In vitro binding studies using GST fusion proteins and yeast extracts defined distinct binding sites on yAP180A for Pan1p and clathrin. yAP180 proteins and Pan1p, like actin, localize to peripheral patches along the plasma membrane. Mammalian synaptojanin, a phosphatidylinositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase, also has been implicated in endocytosis recently, and three synaptojanin-like genes have been identified in yeast. We observed genetic interactions between the yeast SJL1 gene and PAN1, which suggest a role for phosphoinositide metabolites in Pan1p function. Together with other studies, these findings suggest that Pan1p coordinates regulatory interactions between proteins required for both endocytosis and actin-cytoskeleton organization; these proteins include the yAP180 proteins, clathrin, the ubiquitin-protein ligase Rsp5p, End3p, and synaptojanin. We suggest that Pan1p (and by extension eps15) serves as a multivalent adaptor around which dynamic interactions between structural and regulatory components of the endocytic pathway converge.
9535094	Dominant C-terminal deletions of FtsZ that affect its ability to localize in Caulobacter and its interaction with FtsA.	The cell division protein FtsZ is composed of three regions based on sequence similarity: a highly conserved N-terminal region of approximately 320 amino acids; a variable spacer region; and a conserved C-terminal region of eight amino acids. We show that FtsZ mutants missing different C-terminal fragments have dominant lethal effects because they block cell division in Caulobacter crescentus by two different mechanisms. Removal of the C-terminal conserved region, the linker, and 40 amino acids from the end of the N-terminal conserved region (FtsZdeltaC281) prevents the localization or the polymerization of FtsZ. Because two-hybrid analysis indicates that FtsZdeltaC281 does not interact with FtsZ, we hypothesize that FtsZdeltaC281 blocks cell division by competing with a factor required for FtsZ localization or that it titrates a factor required for the stability of the FtsZ ring. The removal of 24 amino acids from the C-terminus of FtsZ (FtsZdeltaC485) causes a punctate pattern of FtsZ localization and affects its interaction with FtsA. This suggests that the conserved C-terminal region of FtsZ is required for proper polymerization of FtsZ in Caulobacter and for its interaction with FtsA.
9535825	Interaction between a cellular protein that binds to the C-terminal region of adenovirus E1A (CtBP) and a novel cellular protein is disrupted by E1A through a conserved PLDLS motif.	Adenovirus E1A proteins immortalize primary animal cells and cooperate with several other oncogenes in oncogenic transformation. These activities are primarily determined by the N-terminal half (exon 1) of E1A. Although the C-terminal half (exon 2) is also essential for some of these activities, it is dispensable for cooperative transformation with the activated T24 ras oncogene. Exon 2 negatively modulates in vitro cooperative transformation with T24 ras as well as the tumorigenic and metastatic potentials of transformed cells. A short C-terminal sequence of E1A governs the oncogenesis-restraining activity of exon 2. This region of E1A binds with a cellular phosphoprotein, CtBP, through a 5-amino acid motif, PLDLS, conserved among the E1A proteins of human adenoviruses. To understand the mechanism by which interaction between E1A and CtBP results in tumorigenesis-restraining activity, we searched for cellular proteins that complex with CtBP. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of a 125-kDa protein, CtIP, that binds with CtBP through the PLDLS motif. E1A exon 2 peptides that contain the PLDLS motif disrupt the CtBP-CtIP complex. Our results suggest that the tumorigenesis-restraining activity of E1A exon 2 may be related to the disruption of the CtBP-CtIP complex through the PLDLS motif.
9539746	Bcl-XL interacts with Apaf-1 and inhibits Apaf-1-dependent caspase-9 activation.	Recent studies indicate that Caenorhabditis elegans CED-4 interacts with and promotes the activation of the death protease CED-3, and that this activation is inhibited by CED-9. Here we show that a mammalian homolog of CED-4, Apaf-1, can associate with several death proteases, including caspase-4, caspase-8, caspase-9, and nematode CED-3 in mammalian cells. The interaction with caspase-9 was mediated by the N-terminal CED-4-like domain of Apaf-1. Expression of Apaf-1 enhanced the killing activity of caspase-9 that required the CED-4-like domain of Apaf-1. Furthermore, Apaf-1 promoted the processing and activation of caspase-9 in vivo. Bcl-XL, an antiapoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family, was shown to physically interact with Apaf-1 and caspase-9 in mammalian cells. The association of Apaf-1 with Bcl-XL was mediated through both its CED-4-like domain and the C-terminal domain containing WD-40 repeats. Expression of Bcl-XL inhibited the association of Apaf-1 with caspase-9 in mammalian cells. Significantly, recombinant Bcl-XL purified from Escherichia coli or insect cells inhibited Apaf-1-dependent processing of caspase-9. Furthermore, Bcl-XL failed to inhibit caspase-9 processing mediated by a constitutively active Apaf-1 mutant, suggesting that Bcl-XL regulates caspase-9 through Apaf-1. These experiments demonstrate that Bcl-XL associates with caspase-9 and Apaf-1, and show that Bcl-XL inhibits the maturation of caspase-9 mediated by Apaf-1, a process that is evolutionarily conserved from nematodes to humans.
9541024	The cell adhesion molecule C-CAM is a substrate for tissue transglutaminase.	C-CAM, a ubiquitously expressed cell adhesion molecule belonging to the carcinoembryonic antigen family, appears as two co-expressed isoforms, C-CAM-L and C-CAM-S, with different cytoplasmic domains, that can form homodimers in epithelial cells. In addition, C-CAM-L has been found in large molecular weight forms suggesting posttranslational, covalent modification. Here we have investigated the possibility that the cytoplasmic domain of C-CAM-L can act as a transglutaminase substrate. Glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins of the cytoplasmic domains of rat and mouse C-CAM-L as well as free cytoplasmic domains, released by thrombin cleavage from the fusion proteins, were converted into covalent dimers by tissue transglutaminase. These results demonstrate that the cytoplasmic domains of rat and mouse C-CAM-L are substrates for tissue transglutaminase, and lend support to the notion that higher molecular weight forms of C-CAM-L are formed by transglutaminase modification.
9545241	Two distantly positioned PDZ domains mediate multivalent INAD-phospholipase C interactions essential for G protein-coupled signaling.	Drosophila INAD, which contains five tandem protein interaction PDZ domains, plays an important role in the G protein-coupled visual signal transduction. Mutations in InaD alleles display mislocalization of signaling molecules of phototransduction which include the essential effector, phospholipase C-beta (PLC-beta), which is also known as NORPA. The molecular and biochemical details of this functional link are unknown. We report that INAD directly binds to NORPA via two terminally positioned PDZ1 and PDZ5 domains. PDZ1 binds to the C-terminus of NORPA, while PDZ5 binds to an internal region overlapping with the G box-homology region (a putative G protein-interacting site). The NORPA proteins lacking binding sites, which display normal basal PLC activity, can no longer associate with INAD in vivo. These truncations cause significant reduction of NORPA protein expression in rhabdomeres and severe defects in phototransduction. Thus, the two terminal PDZ domains of INAD, through intermolecular and/or intramolecular interactions, are brought into proximity in vivo. Such domain organization allows for the multivalent INAD-NORPA interactions which are essential for G protein-coupled phototransduction.
9545246	Rb binds c-Jun and activates transcription.	The retinoblastoma protein (Rb) acts as a critical cell-cycle regulator and loss of Rb function is associated with a variety of human cancer types. Here we report that Rb binds to members of the AP-1 family of transcription factors, including c-Jun, and stimulates c-Jun transcriptional activity from an AP-1 consensus sequence. The interaction involves the leucine zipper region of c-Jun and the B pocket of Rb as well as a C-terminal domain. We also present evidence that the complexes are found in terminally differentiating keratinocytes and cells entering the G1 phase of the cell cycle after release from serum starvation. The human papillomavirus type 16 E7 protein, which binds to both c-Jun and Rb, inhibits the ability of Rb to activate c-Jun. The results provide evidence of a role for Rb as a transcriptional activator in early G1 and as a potential modulator of c-Jun expression during keratinocyte differentiation.
9546398	Crystal structure of the thermosome, the archaeal chaperonin and homolog of CCT.	We have determined to 2.6 A resolution the crystal structure of the thermosome, the archaeal group II chaperonin from T. acidophilum. The hexadecameric homolog of the eukaryotic chaperonin CCT/TRiC shows an (alphabeta)4(alphabeta)4 subunit assembly. Domain folds are homologous to GroEL but form a novel type of inter-ring contact. The domain arrangement resembles the GroEL-GroES cis-ring. Parts of the apical domains form a lid creating a closed conformation. The lid substitutes for a GroES-like cochaperonin that is absent in the CCT/TRiC system. The central cavity has a polar surface implicated in protein folding. Binding of the transition state analog Mg-ADP-AIF3 suggests that the closed conformation corresponds to the ATP form.
9548260	Interaction of polyadenylate-binding protein with the eIF4G homologue PAIP enhances translation.	In the initiation of translation in eukaryotes, binding of the small ribosomal subunit to the messenger RNA results from recognition of the 5' cap structure (m7GpppX) of the mRNA by the cap-binding complex eIF4F. eIF4F is itself a three-subunit complex comprising the cap-binding protein eIF4E, eIF4A, an ATP-dependent RNA helicase, and eIF4G, which interacts with both eIF4A and eIF4E and enhances cap binding by eIF4E. The mRNA 3' polyadenylate tail and the associated poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) also regulate translational initiation, probably by interacting with the 5' end of the mRNA. In yeast and plants, PABP interacts with eIF4G but no such interaction has been reported in mammalian cells. Here, we describe a new human PABP-interacting protein, PAIP-I, whose sequence is similar to the central portion of eIF4G and which interacts with eIF4A. Overexpression of PAIP-1 in COS-7 cells stimulates translation, perhaps by providing a physical link between the mRNA termini.
9551554	The structure of the complex of plastocyanin and cytochrome f, determined by paramagnetic NMR and restrained rigid-body molecular dynamics.	BACKGROUND: The reduction of plastocyanin by cytochrome f is part of the chain of photosynthetic electron transfer reactions that links photosystems II and I. The reaction is rapid and is influenced by charged residues on both proteins. Previously determined structures show that the plastocyanin copper and cytochrome f haem redox centres are some distance apart from the relevant charged sidechains, and until now it was unclear how a transient electrostatic complex can be formed that brings the redox centres sufficiently close for a rapid reaction. RESULTS: A new approach was used to determine the structure of the transient complex between cytochrome f and plastocyanin. Diamagnetic chemical shift changes and intermolecular pseudocontact shifts in the NMR spectrum of plastocyanin were used as input in restrained rigid-body molecular dynamics calculations. An ensemble of ten structures was obtained, in which the root mean square deviation of the plastocyanin position relative to cytochrome f is 1.0 A. Electrostatic interaction is maintained at the same time as the hydrophobic side of plastocyanin makes close contact with the haem area, thus providing a short electron transfer pathway (Fe-Cu distance 10.9 A) via residues Tyr1 or Phe4 (cytochrome f) and the copper ligand His87 (plastocyanin). CONCLUSIONS: The combined use of diamagnetic and paramagnetic chemical shift changes makes it possible to obtain detailed information about the structure of a transient complex of redox proteins. The structure suggests that the electrostatic interactions 'guide' the partners into a position that is optimal for electron transfer, and which may be stabilised by short-range interactions.
9553107	Interaction of the Grb10 adapter protein with the Raf1 and MEK1 kinases.	Grb10 and its close homologues Grb7 and Grb14, belong to a family of adapter proteins characterized by a proline-rich region, a central PH domain, and a carboxyl-terminal Src homology 2 (SH2) domain. Their interaction with a variety of activated tyrosine kinase receptors is well documented, but their actual function remains a mystery. The Grb10 SH2 domain was isolated from a two-hybrid screen using the MEK1 kinase as a bait. We show that this unusual SH2 domain interacts, in a phosphotyrosine-independent manner, with both the Raf1 and MEK1 kinases. Mutation of the MEK1 Thr-386 residue, which is phosphorylated by mitogen-activated protein kinase in vitro, reduces binding to Grb10 in a two-hybrid assay. Interaction of Grb10 with Raf1 is constitutive, while interaction between Grb10 and MEK1 needs insulin treatment of the cells and follows mitogen-activated protein kinase activation. Random mutagenesis of the SH2 domain demonstrated that the Arg-betaB5 and Asp-EF2 residues are necessary for binding to the epidermal growth factor and insulin receptors as well as to the two kinases. In addition, we show that a mutation in Ser-betaB7 affects binding only to the receptors, while a mutation in Thr-betaC5 abrogates binding only to MEK1. Finally, transfection of Grb10 genes with specific mutations in their SH2 domains induces apoptosis in HTC-IR and COS-7 cells. These effects can be competed by co-expression of the wild type protein, suggesting that these mutants act by sequestering necessary signaling components.
9555885	FtsZ dynamics during the division cycle of live Escherichia coli cells.	The dynamics and assembly of bacterial cell division protein FtsZ were monitored in individual, growing and dividing Escherichia coli cells in real time by microculture of a merodiploid strain expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged FtsZ. Cells expressing FtsZ-GFP at levels less than or equivalent to that of wild-type FtsZ were able to grow and divide over multiple generations, with their FtsZ rings visualized by fluorescence. During the late stages of cytokinesis, which constituted the last one-fourth of the cell cycle, the lumen of the FtsZ ring disappeared as the whole structure condensed. At this time, loops of FtsZ-GFP polymers emanated outward from the condensing ring structure and other unstable fluorescent structures elsewhere in the cell were also observed. Assembly of FtsZ rings at new division sites occurred within 1 min, from what appeared to be single points. Interestingly, this nucleation often took place in the predivisional cell at the same time the central FtsZ ring was in its final contraction phase. This demonstrates directly that, at least when FtsZ-GFP is being expressed, new division sites have the capacity to become fully functional for FtsZ targeting and assembly before cell division of the mother cell is completed. The results suggest that the timing of FtsZ assembly may be normally controlled in part by cellular FtsZ concentration. The use of wide-field optical sectioning microscopy to obtain sharp fluorescence images of FtsZ structures is also discussed.
9556625	Evidence for in situ and in vitro association between beta-dystroglycan and the subsynaptic 43K rapsyn protein. Consequence for acetylcholine receptor clustering at the synapse.	The accumulation of dystrophin and associated proteins at the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction and their co-distribution with nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clusters in vitro suggested a role for the dystrophin complex in synaptogenesis. Co-transfection experiments in which alpha- and beta-dystroglycan form a complex with AChR and rapsyn, a peripheral protein required for AChR clustering (Apel, D. A., Roberds, S. L., Campbell, K. P., and Merlie, J. P. (1995) Neuron 15, 115-126), suggested that rapsyn functions as a link between AChR and the dystrophin complex. We have investigated the interaction between rapsyn and beta-dystroglycan in Torpedo AChR-rich membranes using in situ and in vitro approaches. Cross-linking experiments were carried out to study the topography of postsynaptic membrane polypeptides. A cross-linked product of 90 kDa was labeled by antibodies to rapsyn and beta-dystroglycan; this demonstrates that these polypeptides are in close proximity to one another. Affinity chromatography experiments and ligand blot assays using rapsyn solubilized from Torpedo AChR-rich membranes and constructs containing beta-dystroglycan C-terminal fragments show that a rapsyn-binding site is present in the juxtamembranous region of the cytoplasmic tail of beta-dystroglycan. These data point out that rapsyn and dystroglycan interact in the postsynaptic membrane and thus reinforce the notion that dystroglycan could be involved in synaptogenesis.
9559909	Cholecystokinin-8 regulation of NGF concentrations in adult mouse brain through a mechanism involving CCK(A) and CCK(B) receptors.	1. Nerve growth factor (NGF), a powerful agent for the growth, differentiation and regeneration of lesioned cells of the central and peripheral nervous systems, has in recent years been indicated as a potential therapeutic agent capable of reversing the processes of cell damage in neurodegenerative events in man. Since NGF does not cross the blood-brain barrier and central NGF administration requires invasive surgical procedures, the discovery of substances modulating in vivo NGF synthesis in the brain will be extremely useful for a possible clinical use of NGF. 2. The aim of the present study to analyse if the content of NGF in the brain of adult mice can be affected by peripheral administration of cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8), a well known neuropeptide which has stimulant actions on neurons in the brain and promotes a variety of neurobehavioural effects both in man and rodents. 3. The dose-response and time course effects of an i.p. injection of CCK-8 on the NGF concentrations in the hippocampus, cortex, hypothalamus and pituitary of adult male mice were analysed by use of a sensitive immunoenzymatic assay for NGF. The effects of pretreatment with selective CCK(A) and CCK(B) receptor antagonists and atropine on the NGF response to CCK injection were also studied. 4. The effects of CCK-8 were dose- and time-dependent and the injection of 8 nmol kg(-1) resulted in a 3 fold increase of NGF levels in the hypothalamus and pituitary, and about a 60% increase in the hippocampus. No effects were observed in the cortex. Pretreatment with a selective CCK(A) receptor antagonist blocked the CCK-induced NGF increase in the hypothalamus and pituitary. In the hippocampus the same effect was obtained with a CCK(B) receptor antagonist. Pretreatment with atropine suppressed the CCK-induced effects on NGF levels in all the brain regions examined. 5. Our results showing that i.p. injection with CCK-8 can modulate NGF levels in the brain through a mechanism which seems, in part, to be mediated via the vagal afferents, indicate that this neuropeptide may represent a useful pharmacological approach to enhance endogenous NGF levels in neuropathologies associated with a neurotrophin deficit.
9560191	Crystal structure of troponin C in complex with troponin I fragment at 2.3-A resolution.	Troponin (Tn), the complex of three subunits (TnC, TnI, and TnT), plays a key role in Ca2+-dependent regulation of muscle contraction. To elucidate the interactions between the Tn subunits and the conformation of TnC in the Tn complex, we have determined the crystal structure of TnC (two Ca2+ bound state) in complex with the N-terminal fragment of TnI (TnI1-47). The structure was solved by the single isomorphous replacement method in combination with multiple wavelength anomalous dispersion data. The refinement converged to a crystallographic R factor of 22.2% (Rfree = 32.6%). The central, connecting alpha-helix observed in the structure of uncomplexed TnC (TnCfree) is unwound at the center (residues Ala-87, Lys-88, Gly-89, Lys-90, and Ser-91) and bent by 90 degrees. As a result, TnC in the complex has a compact globular shape with direct interactions between the N- and C-terminal lobes, in contrast to the elongated dumb-bell shaped molecule of uncomplexed TnC. The 31-residue long TnI1-47 alpha-helix stretches on the surface of TnC and stabilizes its compact conformation by multiple contacts with both TnC lobes. The amphiphilic C-end of the TnI1-47 alpha-helix is bound in the hydrophobic pocket of the TnC C-lobe through 38 van der Waals interactions. The results indicate the major difference between Ca2+ receptors integrated with the other proteins (TnC in Tn) and isolated in the cytosol (calmodulin). The TnC/TnI1-47 structure implies a mechanism of how Tn regulates the muscle contraction and suggests a unique alpha-helical regulatory TnI segment, which binds to the N-lobe of TnC in its Ca2+ bound conformation.
9560209	A stationary phase protein in Escherichia coli with binding activity to the major sigma subunit of RNA polymerase.	Switching of the transcription pattern in Escherichia coli during the growth transition from exponential to stationary phase is accompanied by the replacement of the RNA polymerase-associated sigma70 subunit (sigmaD) with sigma38 (sigmaS). A fraction of the sigma70 subunit in stationary phase cell extracts was found to exist as a complex with a novel protein, designated Rsd (Regulator of sigma D). The intracellular level of Rsd starts to increase during the transition from growing to stationary phase. The rsd gene was identified at 90 min on the E. coli chromosome. Overexpressed and purified Rsd protein formed complexes in vitro with sigma70 but not with other sigma subunits, sigmaN, sigmaS, sigmaH, sigmaF, and sigmaE. Analysis of proteolytic fragments of sigma70 indicated that Rsd binds at or downstream of region 4, the promoter -35 recognition domain. The isolated Rsd inhibited transcription in vitro to various extents depending on the promoters used. We propose that Rsd is a stationary phase E. coli protein with regulatory activity of the sigma70 function.
9560245	ARC, an inhibitor of apoptosis expressed in skeletal muscle and heart that interacts selectively with caspases.	We have identified and characterized ARC, apoptosis repressor with caspase recruitment domain (CARD). Sequence analysis revealed that ARC contains an N-terminal CARD fused to a C-terminal region rich in proline/glutamic acid residues. The CARD domain of ARC exhibited significant homology to the prodomains of apical caspases and the CARDs present in the cell death regulators Apaf-1 and RAIDD. Immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that ARC interacts with caspase-2, -8, and Caenorhabditis elegans CED-3, but not with caspase-1, -3, or -9. ARC inhibited apoptosis induced by caspase-8 and CED-3 but not that mediated by caspase-9. Further analysis showed that the enzymatic activity of caspase-8 was inhibited by ARC in 293T cells. Consistent with the inhibition of caspase-8, ARC attenuated apoptosis induced by FADD and TRADD and that triggered by stimulation of death receptors coupled to caspase-8, including CD95/Fas, tumor necrosis factor-R1, and TRAMP/DR3. Remarkably, the expression of human ARC was primarily restricted to skeletal muscle and cardiac tissue. Thus, ARC represents an inhibitor of apoptosis expressed in muscle that appears to selectively target caspases. Delivery of ARC by gene transfer or enhancement of its endogenous activity may provide a strategy for the treatment of diseases that are characterized by inappropriately increased cell death in muscle tissue.
9565552	Identification of the ligand binding site for the integrin alpha9 beta1 in the third fibronectin type III repeat of tenascin-C.	The integrin alpha9 subunit forms a single heterodimer, alpha9 beta1 that mediates cell adhesion to a site within the third fibronectin type III repeat of tenascin-C (TNfn3). In contrast to at least 3 other integrins that bind to this region of tenascin-C, alpha9 beta1 does not recognize the common integrin recognition motif, Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD). In this report, we have used substitution mutagenesis to identify a unique ligand recognition sequence in TNfn3. We introduced mutations substituting alanine for each of the acidic residues in or adjacent to each of the exposed loops predicted from the solved crystal structure. Most of these mutations had little or no effect on adhesion of alpha9-transfected SW480 colon carcinoma cells, but mutations of either of two acidic residues in the B-C loop region markedly reduced attachment of these cells. In contrast, cells expressing the integrin alphav beta3, previously reported to bind to the RGD sequence in the adjacent F-G loop, attached to all mutant fragments except one in which the RGD site was mutated to RAA. The peptide, AEIDGIEL, based on the sequence of human tenascin-C in this region blocked the binding of alpha9-transfected cells, but not beta3-transfected cells to wild type TNfn3. This sequence contains a tripeptide, IDG, homologous to the sequences LDV, IDA, and LDA in fibronectin and IDS in VCAM-1 recognized by the closely related integrin alpha4 beta1. These findings support the idea that this tripeptide motif serves as a ligand binding site for the alpha4/alpha9 subfamily of integrins.
9565577	Determination of interaction sites on the small G protein RhoA for phospholipase D.	Phospholipase D (PLD) has been identified as a target of small G proteins of the Rho family. The present study was directed at defining the interaction sites of RhoA with rat brain PLD in vitro using chimeric proteins between RhoA and Ha-Ras or Cdc42Hs and point mutations. The switch I region of RhoA, which is the common effector domain of Ras-like G proteins, was a crucial interaction site for PLD. Mutations in conserved amino acids (Tyr34, Thr37, Phe39) totally abolished PLD activation, while mutations in Val38 or Tyr42 caused partial loss. Two additional sites were responsible for the differential PLD activation ability between RhoA and Cdc42Hs. Changing Asp76 in the switch II region of RhoA to the corresponding amino acid in Cdc42Hs led to partial loss of PLD activation. A chimeric protein with the N-terminal third of Cdc42Hs changed to RhoA showed enhanced PLD activation. Analysis of other Rho/Ha-Ras chimeric proteins and mutations indicated that Gln52 adjacent to the switch II region is responsible for this gain of function. In conclusion, the present study shows that conserved amino acids in the switch I region of RhoA are major PLD interaction sites and that residues in the switch II and internal regions are responsible for the differential activation of PLD by RhoA and Cdc42Hs.
9565587	Binding interaction of the heregulinbeta egf domain with ErbB3 and ErbB4 receptors assessed by alanine scanning mutagenesis.	Individual residues of the heregulinbeta (HRG) egf domain were mutated to alanine and displayed monovalently on phagemid particles as gene III fusion proteins. Wild type HRGbeta egf domain displayed on phage was properly folded as evidenced by its ability to bind ErbB3 and ErbB4 receptor-IgG fusion proteins with affinities close to those measured for bacterially produced HRGbeta egf domain. Binding to ErbB3 and ErbB4 receptors was affected by mutation of residues throughout the egf domain; including the NH2 terminus (His2 and Leu3), the two beta-turns (Val15-Gly18 and Gly42-Gln46), and some discontinuous residues (including Leu3, Val4, Phe13, Val23, and Leu33) that form a patch on the major beta-sheet and the COOH-terminal region (Tyr48 and Met50-Phe53). Binding affinity was least changed by mutations throughout the Omega-loop and the second strand of the major beta-sheet. More mutants had greater affinity loss for ErbB3 compared with ErbB4 implying that it has more stringent binding requirements. Many residues important for HRG binding to its receptors correspond to critical residues for epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor alpha binding to the EGF receptor. Specificity may be determined in part by bulky groups that prevent binding to the unwanted receptor. All of the mutants tested were able to induce phosphorylation and mitogen-activated protein kinase activation through ErbB4 receptors and were able to modulate a transphosphorylation signal from ErbB3 to ErbB2 in MCF7 cells. An understanding of binding similarities and differences among the EGF family of ligands may facilitate the development of egf-like analogs with broad or narrow specificity.
9565592	Leupaxin is a novel LIM domain protein that forms a complex with PYK2.	We have identified a novel cytoplasmic protein, leupaxin, that is preferentially expressed in hematopoietic cells and is most homologous to the focal adhesion protein, paxillin. Leupaxin possesses two types of protein interaction domains. There are four carboxyl-terminal LIM domains in leupaxin that share 70% amino acid identity and 80% similarity with those in paxillin. Paxillin LIM domains mediate localization to focal contacts. In the amino-terminal region of leupaxin there are three short stretches of approximately 13 amino acids that share 70-90% similarity with paxillin LD motifs. Paxillin LD motifs have been implicated in focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and vinculin binding resulting in the localization of FAK to focal adhesions. Leupaxin is expressed in cell types, such as macrophage, that lack FAK. We demonstrate here that leupaxin associates with a second FAK family member, PYK2. As leupaxin and PYK2 are both preferentially expressed in leukocytes they may therefore form a cell type-specific signaling complex. We also demonstrate that leupaxin is a substrate for a tyrosine kinase in lymphoid cells and thus may function in and be regulated by tyrosine kinase activity. Leupaxin is thus a phosphotyrosine protein with LD and LIM binding motifs most homologous to paxillin that may assemble and regulate PYK2 signaling complexes in leukocytes.
9565970	Interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), IL-1 beta, IL-1 receptor type I, IL-1 receptor antagonist, and TGF-beta 1 mRNAs in pediatric astrocytomas, ependymomas, and primitive neuroectodermal tumors.	Interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), IL-1 beta, interleukin-1 receptor type I (IL-1RI, signaling receptor), and IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra, endogenous inhibitor) are pivotal components of the IL-1 system. IL-1 and other cytokines induced by IL-1, such as TGF-beta 1, may participate in the growth of various tumor cells. In children, primary nervous system tumors represent the most common solid malignancy. We investigated the levels of IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-1RI, IL-1Ra, and TGF-beta 1 mRNAs in pediatric astrocytomas (n = 19), ependymomas (n = 13), and primitive neuroectodermal tumors (n = 22) using sensitive and specific RNase protection assays. The data show a significant distinct cytokine mRNA profile among brain tumor types. Pilocytic, nonpilocytic, and anaplastic astrocytomas have significant increased levels of IL-1 beta, IL-1RI, and TGF-beta 1 mRNAs, but low levels of IL-1Ra mRNA; this may have implications for an IL-1 beta feedback system and IL-1 beta<-->TGF-beta 1 interactions in astrocytomas. Ependymomas show increased levels of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta mRNAs associated with low levels of IL-1Ra mRNA; primitive neuroectodermal tumors do not exhibit increased levels of any cytokine component examined. The data also suggest that a dysregulation of the balance between stimulatory and inhibitory cytokines may be involved in the growth and development of brain tumors via autocrine/paracrine mechanisms.
9566883	The N-terminal domain of IkappaB alpha masks the nuclear localization signal(s) of p50 and c-Rel homodimers.	Members of the Rel/NF-kappaB family of transcription factors are related to each other over a region of about 300 amino acids called the Rel Homology Domain (RHD), which governs DNA binding, dimerization, and binding to inhibitor. At the C-terminal end of the RHD, each protein has a nuclear localization signal (NLS). The crystal structures of the p50 and RelA family members show that the RHD consists of two regions: an N-terminal section which contains some of the DNA contacts and a C-terminal section which contains the remaining DNA contacts and controls dimerization. In unstimulated cells, the homo- or heterodimeric Rel/NF-kappaB proteins are cytoplasmic by virtue of binding to an inhibitor protein (IkappaB) which somehow masks the NLS of each member of the dimer. The IkappaB proteins consist of an ankyrin-repeat-containing domain that is required for binding to dimers and N- and C-terminal domains that are dispensable for binding to most dimers. In this study, we examined the interaction between IkappaB alpha and Rel family homodimers by mutational analysis. We show that (i) the dimerization regions of p50, RelA, and c-Rel are sufficient for binding to IkappaB alpha, (ii) the NLSs of RelA and c-Rel are not required for binding to IkappaB alpha but do stabilize the interaction, (iii) the NLS of p50 is required for binding to IkappaB alpha, (iv) only certain residues within the p50 NLS are required for binding, and (v) in a p50-IkappaB alpha complex or a c-Rel-IkappaB alpha complex, the N terminus of IkappaB alpha either directly or indirectly masks one or both of the dimer NLSs.
9566905	Axil, a member of the Axin family, interacts with both glycogen synthase kinase 3beta and beta-catenin and inhibits axis formation of Xenopus embryos.	Using a yeast two-hybrid method, we identified a novel protein which interacts with glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta). This protein had 44% amino acid identity with Axin, a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway.We designated this protein Axil for Axin like. Like Axin, Axil ventralized Xenopus embryos and inhibited Xwnt8-induced Xenopus axis duplication. Axil was phosphorylated by GSK-3beta. Axil bound not only to GSK-3beta but also to beta-catenin, and the GSK-3beta-binding site of Axil was distinct from the beta-catenin-binding site. Furthermore, Axil enhanced GSK-3beta-dependent phosphorylation of beta-catenin. These results indicate that Axil negatively regulates the Wnt signaling pathway by mediating GSK-3beta-dependent phosphorylation of beta-catenin, thereby inhibiting axis formation.
9575181	RICK, a novel protein kinase containing a caspase recruitment domain, interacts with CLARP and regulates CD95-mediated apoptosis.	Signaling through the CD95/Fas/APO-1 death receptor plays a critical role in the homeostasis of the immune system. RICK, a novel protein kinase that regulates CD95-mediated apoptosis was identified and characterized. RICK is composed of an N-terminal serine-threonine kinase catalytic domain and a C-terminal region containing a caspase-recruitment domain. RICK physically interacts with CLARP, a caspase-like molecule known to bind to Fas-associated protein with death domain (FADD) and caspase-8. Expression of RICK promoted the activation of caspase-8 and potentiated apoptosis induced by Fas ligand, FADD, CLARP, and caspase-8. Deletion mutant analysis revealed that both the kinase domain and caspase-recruitment domain were required for RICK to promote apoptosis. Significantly, expression of a RICK mutant in which the lysine of the putative ATP-binding site at position 38 was replaced by a methionine functioned as an inhibitor of CD95-mediated apoptosis. Thus, RICK represents a novel kinase that may regulate apoptosis induced by the CD95/Fas receptor pathway.
9580671	Interaction between hamartin and tuberin, the TSC1 and TSC2 gene products.	Tuberous sclerosis (TSC) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by a mutation in either the TSC1 or TSC2 tumour suppressor gene. The disease is characterized by a broad phenotypic spectrum that can include seizures, mental retardation, renal dysfunction and dermatological abnormalities. TSC2 encodes tuberin, a putative GTPase activating protein for rap1 and rab5. The TSC1 gene was recently identified and codes for hamartin, a novel protein with no significant homology to tuberin or any other known vertebrate protein. Here, we show that hamartin and tuberin associate physically in vivo and that the interaction is mediated by predicted coiled-coil domains. Our data suggest that hamartin and tuberin function in the same complex rather than in separate pathways.
9581554	14-3-3 proteins interact with the insulin-like growth factor receptor but not the insulin receptor.	We have used a yeast two-hybrid system to identify proteins which bind to the cytosolic portion of the type 1 insulin-like growth factor (IGF) receptor (IGFIR) but not the insulin receptor (IR). This analysis identified 14-3-3beta and zeta proteins. 14-3-3beta also binds to the IGFIR but not the IR in vitro and 14-3-3-IGFIR complexes are present in insect cells overexpressing the IGFIR cytoplasmic domain. 14-3-3 proteins are substrates of the IGFIR in the yeast system and in vitro. The interaction of 14-3-3 with the IGFIR requires receptor-kinase activity and maps to the C-terminus of the receptor, but does not depend on tyrosine residues in this or the juxtamembrane regions. Instead, the binding maps to serine residue 1283 and requires phosphorylation of this residue. 14-3-3 proteins are phosphoserine-binding proteins which have been shown to interact directly with components of the mitogenic and apoptotic signalling pathways, suggesting that they participate in growth regulation. Our findings suggest that 14-3-3 proteins may play a role in IGFIR signal transduction and may contribute to the differences in IGF and IR signalling capabilities.
9581761	SynGAP: a synaptic RasGAP that associates with the PSD-95/SAP90 protein family.	The PSD-95/SAP90 family of proteins has recently been implicated in the organization of synaptic structure. Here, we describe the isolation of a novel Ras-GTPase activating protein, SynGAP, that interacts with the PDZ domains of PSD-95 and SAP102 in vitro and in vivo. SynGAP is selectively expressed in brain and is highly enriched at excitatory synapses, where it is present in a large macromolecular complex with PSD-95 and the NMDA receptor. SynGAP stimulates the GTPase activity of Ras, suggesting that it negatively regulates Ras activity at excitatory synapses. Ras signaling at the postsynaptic membrane may be involved in the modulation of excitatory synaptic transmission by NMDA receptors and neurotrophins. These results indicate that SynGAP may play an important role in the modulation of synaptic plasticity.
9582270	Neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein is implicated in the actin-based motility of Shigella flexneri.	Shigella, the causative agent of bacillary dysentery, is capable of directing its own movement in the cytoplasm of infected epithelial cells. The bacterial surface protein VirG recruits host components mediating actin polymerization, which is thought to serve as the propulsive force. Here, we show that neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP), which is a critical target for filopodium formation downstream of Cdc42, is required for assembly of the actin tail generated by intracellular S.flexneri. N-WASP accumulates at the front of the actin tail and is capable of interacting with VirG in vitro and in vivo, a phenomenon that is not observed in intracellular Listeria monocytogenes. The verprolin-homology region in N-WASP was required for binding to the glycine-rich repeats domain of VirG, an essential domain for recruitment of F-actin on intracellular S.flexneri. Overexpression of a dominant-negative N-WASP mutant greatly inhibited formation of the actin tail by intracellular S.flexneri. Furthermore, depletion of N-WASP from Xenopus egg extracts shut off Shigella actin tail assembly, and this was restored upon addition of N-WASP protein, suggesting that N-WASP is a critical host factor for the assembly of the actin tail by intracellular Shigella.
9582365	Sequence requirements for association of protein-tyrosine phosphatase PEP with the Src homology 3 domain of inhibitory tyrosine protein kinase p50(csk).	Previously, we reported that the inhibitory tyrosine protein kinase p50(csk) is physically associated with the protein-tyrosine phosphatase PEP in hematopoietic cells. This interaction was shown to involve the Src homology 3 (SH3) region of Csk and a proline-rich sequence of PEP termed P1 (SRRTDDEIPPPLPERTPESFIVVEE). In this report, we have attempted to understand the structural basis for the highly specific association of these two molecules in vivo. Our studies revealed that the proline-rich core of the P1 region of PEP (PPPLPERT) was necessary but not sufficient for binding to p50(csk). Additional sequences located carboxyl to this motif were also needed for binding to the Csk SH3 domain in vitro and in vivo. Further analyses revealed that two aliphatic residues (isoleucine 625 and valine 626; PESFIVVEE) were especially important for this effect. In addition to clarifying the molecular basis for the selective ability of PEP to associate with Csk, these results constitute further evidence that sequences outside proline-rich cores dictate the specificity of SH3 domain-mediated interactions in vivo.
9584165	RACK1, a receptor for activated C kinase and a homolog of the beta subunit of G proteins, inhibits activity of src tyrosine kinases and growth of NIH 3T3 cells.	To isolate and characterize proteins that interact with the unique domain and SH3 and SH2 domains of Src and potentially regulate Src activity, we used the yeast two-hybrid assay to screen a human lung fibroblast cDNA library. We identified RACK1, a receptor for activated C kinase and a homolog of the beta subunit of G proteins, as a Src-binding protein. Using GST-Src fusion proteins, we determined that RACK1 binds to the SH2 domain of Src. Coimmunoprecipitation of Src and RACK1 was demonstrated with NIH 3T3 cells. Purified GST-RACK1 inhibited the in vitro kinase activity of Src in a concentration-dependent manner. GST-RACK1 (2 microM) inhibited the activities of purified Src and Lck tyrosine kinases by 40 to 50% but did not inhibit the activities of three serine/threonine kinases that we tested. Tyrosine phosphorylation on many cellular proteins decreased in 293T cells that transiently overexpressed RACK1. Src activity and cell growth rates decreased by 40 to 50% in NIH 3T3 cells that stably overexpressed RACK1. Flow cytometric analyses revealed that RACK1-overexpressing cells do not show an increased rate of necrosis or apoptosis but do spend significantly more time in G0/G1 than do wild-type cells. Prolongation of G0/G1 could account for the increased doubling time of RACK1-overexpressing cells. We suggest that RACK1 exerts its effect on the NIH 3T3 cell cycle in part by inhibiting Src activity.
9584196	XRCC1 is specifically associated with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and negatively regulates its activity following DNA damage.	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP; EC 2.4.2.30) is a zinc-finger DNA-binding protein that detects and signals DNA strand breaks generated directly or indirectly by genotoxic agents. In response to these breaks, the immediate poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation of nuclear proteins involved in chromatin architecture and DNA metabolism converts DNA damage into intracellular signals that can activate DNA repair programs or cell death options. To have greater insight into the physiological function of this enzyme, we have used the two-hybrid system to find genes encoding proteins putatively interacting with PARP. We have identified a physical association between PARP and the base excision repair (BER) protein XRCC1 (X-ray repair cross-complementing 1) in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae system, which was further confirmed to exist in mammalian cells. XRCC1 interacts with PARP by its central region (amino acids 301 to 402), which contains a BRCT (BRCA1 C terminus) module, a widespread motif in DNA repair and DNA damage-responsive cell cycle checkpoint proteins. Overexpression of XRCC1 in Cos-7 or HeLa cells dramatically decreases PARP activity in vivo, reinforcing the potential protective function of PARP at DNA breaks. Given that XRCC1 is also associated with DNA ligase III via a second BRCT module and with DNA polymerase beta, our results provide strong evidence that PARP is a member of a BER multiprotein complex involved in the detection of DNA interruptions and possibly in the recruitment of XRCC1 and its partners for efficient processing of these breaks in a coordinated manner. The modular organizations of these interactors, associated with small conserved domains, may contribute to increasing the efficiency of the overall pathway.
9593750	4E-BP3, a new member of the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein family.	Translation initiation in eukaryotes is mediated by the cap structure (m7GpppN, where N is any nucleotide) present at the 5' end of all cellular mRNAs, except organellar. The cap is recognized by eukaryotic initiation factor 4F (eIF4F), which consists of three polypeptides, including eIF4E, the cap-binding protein subunit. The interaction of the cap with eIF4E facilitates the binding of the ribosome to the mRNA. eIF4E activity is regulated in part by two translational repressors, 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2, which bind to it and prevent its assembly into eIF4F. We report here the isolation of 4E-BP3, a new member of the 4E-BP family. 4E-BP3 is homologous to 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2, exhibiting 57 and 59% identity, respectively. The homology is most striking in the middle region of the protein, which contains the eIF4E binding motif and residues that are phosphorylated in 4E-BP1. 4E-BP3 is a heat stable protein that binds to eIF4E in vitro as well as in vivo. Further, 4E-BP3 overexpression specifically reduces eIF4E-dependent translation. The overlapping function and expression of the different 4E-BP family members imply that there is redundancy in this translational control mechanism, underscoring its importance.
9596688	Molecular chaperone GRP94 binds to the Fanconi anemia group C protein and regulates its intracellular expression.	The FAC protein encoded by the gene defective in Fanconi anemia (FA) complementation group C binds to at least three ubiquitous cytoplasmic proteins in vitro. We used here the complete coding sequence of FAC in a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify interacting proteins. The molecular chaperone GRP94 was isolated twice from a B-lymphocyte cDNA library. Binding was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation of FAC and GRP94 from cytosolic, but not nuclear, lysates of transfected COS-1 cells, as well as from mouse liver cytoplasmic extracts. Deletion mutants of FAC showed that residues 103-308 were required for interaction with GRP94, and a natural splicing mutation within the IVS-4 of FAC that removes residues 111-148 failed to bind GRP94. Ribozyme-mediated inactivation of GRP94 in the rat NRK cell line led to significantly reduced levels of immunoreactive FAC and concomitant hypersensitivity to mitomycin C, similar to the cellular phenotype of FA. Our results demonstrate that GRP94 interacts with FAC both in vitro and in vivo and regulates its intracellular level in a cell culture model. In addition, the pathogenicity of the IVS-4 splicing mutation in the FAC gene may be mediated in part by its inability to bind to GRP94.
9600925	Role of the J-domain in the cooperation of Hsp40 with Hsp70.	The Escherichia coli Hsp40 DnaJ and Hsp70 DnaK cooperate in the binding of proteins at intermediate stages of folding, assembly, and translocation across membranes. Binding of protein substrates to the DnaK C-terminal domain is controlled by ATP binding and hydrolysis in the N-terminal ATPase domain. The interaction of DnaJ with DnaK is mediated at least in part by the highly conserved N-terminal J-domain of DnaJ that includes residues 2-75. Heteronuclear NMR experiments with uniformly 15N-enriched DnaJ2-75 indicate that the chemical environment of residues located in helix II and the flanking loops is perturbed on interaction with DnaK or a truncated DnaK molecule, DnaK2-388. NMR signals corresponding to these residues broaden and exhibit changes in chemical shifts in the presence of DnaK(MgADP). Addition of MgATP largely reversed the broadening, indicating that NMR signals of DnaJ2-75 respond to ATP-dependent changes in DnaK. The J-domain interaction is localized to the ATPase domain of DnaK and is likely to be dominated by electrostatic interactions. The results suggest that the J-domain tethers DnaK to DnaJ-bound substrates, which DnaK then binds with its C-terminal peptide-binding domain.
9613608	Peptide binding consensus of the NHE-RF-PDZ1 domain matches the C-terminal sequence of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR).	The Na+-H+ exchanger regulatory factor (NHE-RF) is a cytoplasmic phosphoprotein that was first found to be involved in protein kinase A mediated regulation of ion transport. NHE-RF contains two distinct protein interaction PDZ domains: NHE-RF-PDZ1 and NHE-RF-PDZ2. However, their binding partners are currently unknown. Because PDZ domains usually bind to specific short linear C-terminal sequences, we have carried out affinity selection of random peptides for specific sequences that interact with the NHE-RF PDZ domains and found that NHE-RF-PDZ1 is capable of binding to the CFTR C-terminus. The specific and tight association suggests a potential regulatory role of NHE-RF in cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) function.
9620676	Structural basis of 2C TCR allorecognition of H-2Ld peptide complexes.	MHC class I H-2Ld complexed with peptide QL9 (or p2Ca) is a high-affinity alloantigen for the 2C TCR. We used the crystal structure of H-2Ld with a mixture of bound peptides at 3.1 A to construct a model of the allogeneic 2C-Ld/QL9 complex for comparison with the syngeneic 2C-Kb/dEV8 structure. A prominent ridge on the floor of the Ld peptide-binding groove, not present in Kb, creates a C-terminal bulge in Ld peptides that greatly increases interactions with the 2C beta-chain. Furthermore, weak electrostatic complementarity between Asp77 on the alpha1 helix of Kb and 2C is enhanced in the allogeneic complex by closer proximity of QL9 peptide residue AspP8 to the 2C HV4 loop.
96251339	The p53-binding protein 53BP2 also interacts with Bc12 and impedes cell cycle progression at G2/M.	Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have isolated a cDNA (designated BBP, for Bcl2-binding protein) for a protein (Bbp) that interacts with Bcl2. Bbp is identical to 53BP2, a partial clone of which was previously isolated in a two-hybrid screen for proteins that interact with p53. In this study, we show that specific interactions of Bbp/53BP2 with either Bcl2 or p53 require its ankyrin repeats and SH3 domain. These interactions can be reproduced in vitro with bacterially expressed fusion proteins, and competition experiments indicate that Bcl2 prevents p53 from binding to Bbp/53BP2. BBP/53BP2 mRNA is abundant in most cell lines examined, but the protein cannot be stably expressed in a variety of cell types by transfection. In transiently transfected cells, Bbp partially colocalizes with Bcl2 in the cytoplasm and results in an increased number of cells at G2/M, possibly accounting for the inability to obtain stable transfectants expressing the protein. These results demonstrate that a single protein can interact with either Bcl2 or p53 both in yeast cells and in vitro. The in vivo significance of these interactions and their potential consequences for cell cycle progression and cell death remain to be determined.
9628892	The Src homology domain 3 (SH3) of a yeast type I myosin, Myo5p, binds to verprolin and is required for targeting to sites of actin polarization.	The budding yeast contains two type I myosins, Myo3p and Myo5p, with redundant functions. Deletion of both myosins results in growth defects, loss of actin polarity and polarized cell surface growth, and accumulation of intracellular membranes. Expression of myc-tagged Myo5p in myo3Delta myo5Delta cells fully restores wild-type characteristics. Myo5p is localized as punctate, cortical structures enriched at sites of polarized cell growth. We find that latrunculin-A-induced depolymerization of F-actin results in loss of Myo5p patches. Moreover, incubation of yeast cells at 37 degrees C results in transient depolarization of both Myo5p patches and the actin cytoskeleton. Mutant Myo5 proteins with deletions in nonmotor domains were expressed in myo3Delta myo5Delta cells and the resulting strains were analyzed for Myo5p function. Deletion of the tail homology 2 (TH2) domain, previously implicated in ATP-insensitive actin binding, has no detectable effect on Myo5p function. In contrast, myo3Delta myo5Delta cells expressing mutant Myo5 proteins with deletions of the src homology domain 3 (SH3) or both TH2 and SH3 domains display defects including Myo5p patch depolarization, actin disorganization, and phenotypes associated with actin dysfunction. These findings support a role for the SH3 domain in Myo5p localization and function in budding yeast. The proline-rich protein verprolin (Vrp1p) binds to the SH3 domain of Myo3p or Myo5p in two-hybrid tests, coimmunoprecipitates with Myo5p, and colocalizes with Myo5p. Immunolocalization of the myc-tagged SH3 domain of Myo5p reveals diffuse cytoplasmic staining. Thus, the SH3 domain of Myo5p contributes to but is not sufficient for localization of Myo5p either to patches or to sites of polarized cell growth. Consistent with this, Myo5p patches assemble but do not localize to sites of polarized cell surface growth in a VRP1 deletion mutant. Our studies support a multistep model for Myo5p targeting in yeast. The first step, assembly of Myo5p patches, is dependent upon F-actin, and the second step, polarization of actin patches, requiresVrp1p and the SH3 domain of Myo5p.
9630228	Intramolecular masking of nuclear import signal on NF-AT4 by casein kinase I and MEKK1.	T cell activation requires the import of NF-AT transcription factors to the nucleus, a process promoted by calcineurin-dependent dephosphorylation and inhibited by poorly understood protein kinases. Here, we report the identification of two protein kinases that oppose NF-AT4 nuclear import. Casein kinase Ialpha directly binds and phosphorylates NF-AT4, resulting in the inhibiton of NF-AT4 nuclear translocation. MEKK1 indirectly suppresses NF-AT4 nuclear import by stabilizing the interaction between NF-AT4 and CKIalpha. CKIalpha thus acts to establish an intramolecular masking of the nuclear location signal on NF-AT4, while MEKK1 augments this mechanism, and may further provide a link to signal transduction pathways regulating NF-AT4.
9632636	Grb10 identified as a potential regulator of growth hormone (GH) signaling by cloning of GH receptor target proteins.	The cloning of receptor targets procedure, used so far to identify proteins associated with tyrosine kinase receptors was modified to clone SH2 proteins able to bind to the growth hormone receptor (GHR). The cytoplasmic region of GHR, a member of the cytokine receptor superfamily does not contain tyrosine kinase activity. It was thus phosphorylated in bacteria by the Elk tyrosine kinase and radiolabeled to screen a mouse expression library. With this probe, we identified Shc and the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase as direct targets of the receptor. The other proteins identified, Csk, Shb, Grb4, and Grb10 are new potential transducers for cytokine receptors. We show in Huh-7 hepatoma cells that Grb10 and GHR associate under GH stimulation. Co-transfections in 293 cells further show that Grb10 interacts with both the GHR and Jak2. Functional tests demonstrate that Grb10 inhibits transcription of two reporter genes containing, respectively, the serum response element of c-fos and the GH response element 2 of the Spi2.1 gene, whereas it has no effect on a reporter gene containing only Stat5 binding elements. Our results suggest that Grb10 is a new target for a member of the cytokine receptor family that down-regulates some GH signaling pathways downstream of Jak2 and independently of Stat5.
9632725	Identification of single C motif-1/lymphotactin receptor XCR1.	Single C motif-1 (SCM-1)/lymphotactin is a member of the chemokine superfamily, but retains only the 2nd and 4th of the four cysteine residues conserved in other chemokines. In humans, there are two highly homologous SCM-1 genes encoding SCM-1alpha and SCM-1beta with two amino acid substitutions. To identify a specific receptor for SCM-1 proteins, we produced recombinant SCM-1alpha and SCM-1beta by the baculovirus expression system and tested them on murine L1.2 cells stably expressing eight known chemokine receptors and three orphan receptors. Both proteins specifically induced migration in cells expressing an orphan receptor, GPR5. The migration was chemotactic and suppressed by pertussis toxin, indicating coupling to a Galpha type of G protein. Both proteins also induced intracellular calcium mobilization in GPR5-expressing L1.2 cells with efficient mutual cross desensitization. SCM-1alpha bound specifically to GPR5-expressing L1.2 cells with a Kd of 10 nM. By Northern blot analysis, GPR5 mRNA of about 5 kilobases was detected strongly in placenta and weakly in spleen and thymus among various human tissues. Identification of a specific receptor for SCM-1 would facilitate our investigation on its biological function. Following the set rule for the chemokine receptor nomenclature, we propose to designate GPR5 as XCR1 from XC chemokine receptor-1.
9632747	RB and c-Myc activate expression of the E-cadherin gene in epithelial cells through interaction with transcription factor AP-2.	E-cadherin plays a pivotal role in the biogenesis of the first epithelium during development, and its down-regulation is associated with metastasis of carcinomas. We recently reported that inactivation of RB family proteins by simian virus 40 large T antigen (LT) in MDCK epithelial cells results in a mesenchymal conversion associated with invasiveness and a down-regulation of c-Myc. Reexpression of RB or c-Myc in such cells allows the reexpression of epithelial markers including E-cadherin. Here we show that both RB and c-Myc specifically activate transcription of the E-cadherin promoter in epithelial cells but not in NIH 3T3 mesenchymal cells. This transcriptional activity is mediated in both cases by the transcription factor AP-2. In vitro AP-2 and RB interaction involves the N-terminal domain of AP-2 and the oncoprotein binding domain and C-terminal domain of RB. In vivo physical interaction between RB and AP-2 was demonstrated in MDCK and HaCat cells. In LT-transformed MDCK cells, LT, RB, and AP-2 were all coimmunoprecipitated by each of the corresponding antibodies, and a mutation of the RB binding domain of the oncoprotein inhibited its binding to both RB and AP-2. Taken together, our results suggest that there is a tripartite complex between LT, RB, and AP-2 and that the physical and functional interactions between LT and AP-2 are mediated by RB. Moreover, they define RB and c-Myc as coactivators of AP-2 in epithelial cells and shed new light on the significance of the LT-RB complex, linking it to the dedifferentiation processes occurring during tumor progression. These data confirm the important role for RB and c-Myc in the maintenance of the epithelial phenotype and reveal a novel mechanism of gene activation by c-Myc.
9632782	The Mdm2 oncoprotein interacts with the cell fate regulator Numb.	The Mdm2 oncoprotein is a well-known inhibitor of the p53 tumor suppressor, but it may also possess p53-independent activities. In search of such p53-independent activities, the yeast two-hybrid screen was employed to identify Mdm2-binding proteins. We report that in vitro and in transfected cells, Mdm2 can associate with Numb, a protein involved in the determination of cell fate. This association causes translocation of overexpressed Numb into the nucleus and leads to a reduction in overall cellular Numb levels. Through its interaction with Numb, Mdm2 may influence processes such as differentiation and survival. This could potentially contribute to the altered properties of tumor cells which overexpress Mdm2.
9637685	Miranda as a multidomain adapter linking apically localized Inscuteable and basally localized Staufen and Prospero during asymmetric cell division in Drosophila.	Neuroblasts in the developing Drosophila CNS asymmetrically localize the cell fate determinants Numb and Prospero as well as prospero RNA to the basal cortex during mitosis. The localization of Prospero requires the function of inscuteable and miranda, whereas prospero RNA localization requires inscuteable and staufen function. We demonstrate that Miranda contains multiple functional domains: an amino-terminal asymmetric localization domain, which interacts with Inscuteable, a central Numb interaction domain, and a more carboxy-terminal Prospero interaction domain. We also show that Miranda and Staufen have similar subcellular localization patterns and interact in vitro. Furthermore, miranda function is required for the asymmetric localization of Staufen. Miranda localization is disrupted by the microfilament disrupting agent latrunculin A. Our results suggest that Miranda directs the basal cortical localization of multiple molecules, including Staufen and prospero RNA, in mitotic neuroblasts in an actin-dependent manner.
9637686	Miranda mediates asymmetric protein and RNA localization in the developing nervous system.	Neuroblasts undergo asymmetric stem cell divisions to generate a series of ganglion mother cells (GMCs). During these divisions, the cell fate determinant Prospero is asymmetrically partitioned to the GMC by Miranda protein, which tethers it to the basal cortex of the dividing neuroblast. Interestingly, prospero mRNA is similarly segregated by the dsRNA binding protein, Staufen. Here we show that Staufen interacts in vivo with a segment of the prospero 3' UTR. Staufen protein and prospero RNA colocalize to the apical side of the neuroblast at interphase, but move to the basal side during prophase. Both the apical and basal localization of Staufen are abolished by the removal of a conserved domain from the carboxyl terminus of the protein, which interacts in a yeast two-hybrid screen with Miranda protein. Furthermore, Miranda colocalizes with Staufen protein and prospero mRNA during neuroblast divisions, and neither Staufen nor prospero RNA are localized in miranda mutants. Thus Miranda, which localizes Prospero protein, also localizes prospero RNA through its interaction with Staufen protein.
9642193	Identification of a specific chaperone for SptP, a substrate of the centisome 63 type III secretion system of Salmonella typhimurium.	Salmonella typhimurium uses of a type III protein secretion system encoded at centisome 63 of its chromosome to deliver effector molecule into the host cell. These proteins stimulate host cell responses such as reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and activation of transcription factors. One of these effector proteins is SptP, a tyrosine phosphatase that causes disruption of the host cell actin cytoskeleton. A characteristic feature of many substrates of type III secretion systems is their association with specific cytoplasmic chaperones which appears to be required for secretion and/or translocation of these proteins into the host cell. We report here the identification of SicP, a 13-kDa acidic polypeptide that is encoded immediately upstream of sptP. A loss-of-function mutation in sicP resulted in drastically reduced levels of SptP but did not affect sptP expression, indicating that SicP exerts its effect posttranscriptionally. Pulse-chase experiments demonstrated that the loss of SicP leads to increased degradation of SptP. In addition, we show that SicP binds to SptP directly and that the binding site is located between residues 15 and 100 of the tyrosine phosphatase. Taken together, these results indicate that SicP acts as a specific chaperone for SptP.
9642216	Steroid receptor coactivator-1 coactivates activating protein-1-mediated transactivations through interaction with the c-Jun and c-Fos subunits.	Steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) specifically bound to the transcription factor AP-1 subunits c-Jun and c-Fos, as demonstrated by the yeast two-hybrid tests and glutathione S-transferase pull down assays. The c-Jun and c-Fos binding sites were localized to the C-terminal subregion of SRC-1 (amino acids 1101-1441) that encompasses the previously described histone acetyltransferase and receptor-binding domains. In mammalian cells, SRC-1, similar to the previous results with CBP-p300 (Arias, J., Alberts, A. S., Brindle, P., Claret, F. X., Smeal, T., Karin, M., Feramisco, J., and Montminy, M. (1994) Nature 370, 226-229; Bannister, A. J., and Kouzarides, T. (1995) EMBO J. 14, 4758-4762), potentiated the AP-1-mediated transactivations in a dose-dependent manner and derepressed the mutual inhibitions between nuclear receptors and AP-1. Furthermore, coexpression of p300 further enhanced this SRC-1-potentiated level of transactivations. Thus, we concluded that at least two distinct coactivator molecules may cooperate to regulate AP-1-dependent transactivations and mediate transrepression between AP-1 and nuclear receptors in vivo.
9642260	RIP2 is a novel NF-kappaB-activating and cell death-inducing kinase.	Through specific interactions with members of the tumor necrosis receptor (TNFR) family, adapter molecules such as the serine/threonine (Ser/Thr) kinase RIP mediate divergent signaling pathways including NF-kappaB activation and cell death. In this study, we have identified and characterized a novel 61-kDa protein kinase related to RIP that is a component of both the TNFR-1 and the CD40 signaling complexes. Receptor interacting protein-2 (RIP2) contains an N-terminal domain with homology to Ser/Thr kinases and a C-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domain (CARD), a homophilic interaction motif that mediates the recruitment of caspase death proteases. Overexpression of RIP2 signaled both NF-kappaB activation and cell death. Mutational analysis revealed the pro-apoptotic function of RIP2 to be restricted to its C-terminal CARD domain, whereas the intact molecule was necessary for NF-kappaB activation. RIP2 interacted with other members of the TNFR-1 signaling complex, including inhibitor of apoptosis protein cIAP1 and with members of the TNFR-associated factor (TRAF) family, specifically TRAF1, TRAF5, and TRAF6, but not with TRAF2, TRAF3, or TRAF4. These TRAF interactions mediate the recruitment of RIP2 to receptor signaling complexes.
9649509	Human papillomavirus 16 E6 oncoprotein binds to interferon regulatory factor-3 and inhibits its transcriptional activity.	Interferon regulatory factor-3 (IRF-3) was found to specifically interact with HPV16 E6 in a yeast two-hybrid screen. IRF-3 is activated by the presence of double-stranded RNA or by virus infection to form a stable complex with other transcriptional regulators that bind to the regulatory elements of the IFNbeta promoter. We show that IRF-3 is a potent transcriptional activator and demonstrate that HPV16 E6 can inhibit its transactivation function. The expression of HPV16 E6 in primary human keratinocytes inhibits the induction of IFNbeta mRNA following Sendai virus infection. The binding of HPV16 E6 to IRF-3 does not result in its ubiquitination or degradation. We propose that the interaction of E6 with IRF-3 and the inhibition of IRF-3's transcriptional activity may provide the virus a means to circumvent the normal antiviral response of an HPV16-infected cell.
9651361	Hepatitis C virus core protein interacts with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K.	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) core protein, a component of viral nucleocapsid, has been shown to modulate cellular and viral promoter activities. To identify potential cellular targets for HCV core protein, a human liver cDNA library was screened for core-interacting proteins using the yeast two-hybrid system. Among the proteins identified was heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNP K), which has been demonstrated to be a transcriptional regulator. The interaction of HCV core protein with hnRNP K was confirmed by glutathione S-transferase fusion protein binding assay, protein-protein blotting assay, and coimmunoprecipitation in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, these two proteins were shown to be partially colocalized in the nucleus. The hnRNP K-binding site in HCV core protein was mapped to the region from amino acid residues 25-91, a hydrophilic area near the N terminus. The HCV core protein-binding domain was located within amino acid residues 250 to 392, which contain the three proline-rich domains, of hnRNP K. Furthermore, HCV core protein relieved the suppression effect of hnRNP K on the activity of the human thymidine kinase gene promoter. The specific binding of HCV core protein to hnRNP K suggests that multiple functions of hnRNP K may be disrupted by the core protein during HCV infection and thus explains, in part, the pathogenesis of HCV.
9651582	Influenza virus NS1 protein interacts with the cellular 30 kDa subunit of CPSF and inhibits 3'end formation of cellular pre-mRNAs.	Inhibition of the nuclear export of poly(A)-containing mRNAs caused by the influenza A virus NS1 protein requires its effector domain. Here, we demonstrate that the NS1 effector domain functionally interacts with the cellular 30 kDa subunit of CPSF, an essential component of the 3' end processing machinery of cellular pre-mRNAs. In influenza virus-infected cells, the NS1 protein is physically associated with CPSF 30 kDa. Binding of the NS1 protein to the 30 kDa protein in vitro prevents CPSF binding to the RNA substrate and inhibits 3' end cleavage and polyadenylation of host pre-mRNAs. The NS1 protein also inhibits 3' end processing in vivo, and the uncleaved pre-mRNA remains in the nucleus. Via this novel regulation of pre-mRNA 3' end processing, the NS1 protein selectively inhibits the nuclear export of cellular, and not viral, mRNAs.
9653139	Basal and human papillomavirus E6 oncoprotein-induced degradation of Myc proteins by the ubiquitin pathway.	We have previously shown that the degradation of c-myc and N-myc in vitro is mediated by the ubiquitin system. However, the role of the system in targeting the myc proteins in vivo and the identity of the conjugating enzymes and possible ancillary proteins involved has remained obscure. Here we report that the degradation of the myc proteins in cells is inhibited by lactacystin and MG132, two inhibitors of the 20S proteasome. Inhibition is accompanied by accumulation of myc-ubiquitin conjugates. Dissection of the ancillary proteins involved revealed that the high-risk human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6-16 stimulates conjugation and subsequent degradation of the myc proteins in vitro. Expression of E6-16 in cells results in significant shortening of the t1/2 of the myc proteins with subsequent decrease in their cellular level. Analysis of the conjugating enzymes revealed that under basal conditions the proteins can be conjugated by two pairs of E2s and E3s-E2-14 kDa and E3alpha involved in the "N-end rule" pathway, and E2-F1 (UbcH7) and E3-Fos involved also in conjugation of c-Fos. In the presence of E6-16, a third pair, E2-F1 and E6-AP mediate conjugation of myc by means of a mechanism that appears to be similar to that involved in the targeting of p53, formation of a myc. E6.E6-AP targeting complex. It is possible that in certain cells E6-mediated targeting of myc prevents myc-induced apoptosis and thus ensures maintenance of viral infection.
9655823	Conformational changes on substrate binding to methylmalonyl CoA mutase and new insights into the free radical mechanism.	BACKGROUND: Methylmalonyl CoA mutase catalyses the interconversion of succinyl CoA and methylmalonyl CoA via a free radical mechanism. The enzyme belongs to a family of enzymes that catalyse intramolecular rearrangement reactions in which a group and a hydrogen atom on adjacent carbons are exchanged. These enzymes use the cofactor adenosylcobalamin (coenzyme B12) which breaks to form an adenosyl radical, thus initiating the reaction. Determination of the structure of substrate-free methylmalonyl CoA mutase was initiated to provide further insight into the mechanism of radical formation. RESULTS: We report here two structures of methylmalonyl CoA mutase from Propionibacterium shermanii. The first structure is of the enzyme in a nonproductive complex with CoA at 2.5 A resolution. This structure serves as a model for the substrate-free conformation of the enzyme, as it is very similar to the second much poorer 2.7 A resolution structure derived from a truly substrate-free crystal. The true substrate-free structure also shows the adenosyl group bound to the cobalt atom. Comparison of this structure with that of the previously reported complex of the enzyme with a substrate analogue shows that major conformational changes occur upon substrate binding. The substrate-binding site of the enzyme is located within a (beta alpha)8 TIM-barrel domain. In the absence of substrate, this TIM-barrel domain is split apart and the active site is accessible to solvent. When substrate binds, the barrel closes up with the substrate along its axis and the active site becomes completely buried. CONCLUSIONS: The closure of the active-site cavity upon substrate binding displaces the adenosyl group of the cofactor from the central cobalt atom into the active-site cavity. This triggers the formation of the free radical that initiates the rearrangement reaction. The TIM-barrel domain is substantially different from all others yet reported: in its unliganded form it is broken open, exposing the small hydrophilic sidechains which fill the centre. The typical barrel structure is only formed when substrate is bound.
9657725	Rad53 FHA domain associated with phosphorylated Rad9 in the DNA damage checkpoint.	The Rad53 protein kinase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is required for checkpoints that prevent cell division in cells with damaged or incompletely replicated DNA. The Rad9 protein was phosphorylated in response to DNA damage, and phosphorylated Rad9 interacted with the COOH-terminal forkhead homology-associated (FHA) domain of Rad53. Inactivation of this domain abolished DNA damage-dependent Rad53 phosphorylation, G2/M cell cycle phase arrest, and increase of RNR3 transcription but did not affect replication inhibition-dependent Rad53 phosphorylation. Thus, Rad53 integrates DNA damage signals by coupling with phosphorylated Rad9. The hitherto uncharacterized FHA domain appears to be a modular protein-binding domain.
9659904	Crystal structure of the complex of diphtheria toxin with an extracellular fragment of its receptor.	We describe the crystal structure at 2.65 A resolution of diphtheria toxin (DT) complexed 1:1 with a fragment of its cell-surface receptor, the precursor of heparin-binding epidermal-growth-factor-like growth factor (HBEGF). HBEGF in the complex has the typical EGF-like fold and packs its principal beta hairpin against the face of a beta sheet in the receptor-binding domain of DT. The interface has a predominantly hydrophobic core, and polar interactions are formed at the periphery. The structure of the complex suggests that part of the membrane anchor of the receptor can interact with a hinge region of DT. The toxin molecule is thereby induced to form an open conformation conducive to membrane insertion. The structure provides a basis for altering the binding specificity of the toxin, and may also serve as a model for other EGF-receptor interactions.
9659915	PAK kinases are directly coupled to the PIX family of nucleotide exchange factors.	The PAK family of kinases are regulated through interaction with the small GTPases Cdc42 and Rac1, but little is known of the signaling components immediately upstream or downstream of these proteins. We have purified and cloned a new class of Rho-p21 guanine nucleotide exchange factor binding tightly through its N-terminal SH3 domain to a conserved proline-rich PAK sequence with a Kd of 24 nM. This PAK-interacting exchange factor (PIX), which is widely expressed and enriched in Cdc42- and Rac1-driven focal complexes, is required for PAK recruitment to these sites. PIX can induce membrane ruffling, with an associated activation of Rac1. Our results suggest a role for PIX in Cdc42-to-Rac1 signaling, involving the PIX/PAK complex.
9659918	Molecular interaction between COP1 and HY5 defines a regulatory switch for light control of Arabidopsis development.	Arabidopsis COP1 acts as a light-inactivable repressor of photomorphogenic development, but its molecular mode of action remains unclear. Here, we show that COP1 negatively regulates HY5, a bZIP protein and a positive regulator of photomorphogenic development. Both in vitro and in vivo assays indicate that COP1 interacts directly and specifically with HY5. The hyperphotomorphogenic phenotype caused by the over-expression of a mutant HY5, which lacks the COP1-interactive domain, supports the regulatory role of HY5-COP1 interaction. Further, HY5 is capable of directly interacting with the CHS1 minimal promoter and is essential for its light activation. We propose that the direct interaction with and regulation of transcription factors by COP1 may represent the molecular mechanism for its control of gene expression and photomorphogenic development.
9660829	Complex formation by all five homologues of mammalian translation initiation factor 3 subunits from yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The PRT1, TIF34, GCD10, and SUI1 proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were found previously to copurify with eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3) activity. Although TIF32, NIP1, and TIF35 are homologous to subunits of human eIF3, they were not known to be components of the yeast factor. We detected interactions between PRT1, TIF34, and TIF35 by the yeast two-hybrid assay and in vitro binding assays. Discrete segments (70-150 amino acids) of PRT1 and TIF35 were found to be responsible for their binding to TIF34. Temperature-sensitive mutations mapping in WD-repeat domains of TIF34 were isolated that decreased binding between TIF34 and TIF35 in vitro. The lethal effect of these mutations was suppressed by increasing TIF35 gene dosage, suggesting that the TIF34-TIF35 interaction is important for TIF34 function in translation. Pairwise in vitro interactions were also detected between PRT1 and TIF32, TIF32 and NIP1, and NIP1 and SUI1. Furthermore, PRT1, NIP1, TIF34, TIF35, and a polypeptide with the size of TIF32 were specifically coimmunoprecipitated from the ribosomal salt wash fraction. We propose that all five yeast proteins homologous to human eIF3 subunits are components of a stable heteromeric complex in vivo and may comprise the conserved core of yeast eIF3.
9660868	Human CASK/LIN-2 binds syndecan-2 and protein 4.1 and localizes to the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells.	In Caenorhabditis elegans, mutations in the lin-2 gene inactivate the LET-23 receptor tyrosine kinase/Ras/MAP kinase pathway required for vulval cell differentiation. One function of LIN-2 is to localize LET-23 to the basal membrane domain of vulval precursor cells. LIN-2 belongs to the membrane-associated guanylate kinase family of proteins. We have cloned and characterized the human homolog of LIN-2, termed hCASK, and Northern and Western blot analyses reveal that it is ubiquitously expressed. Indirect immunofluorescence localizes CASK to distinct lateral and/or basal plasma membrane domains in different epithelial cell types. We detect in a yeast two-hybrid screen that the PDZ domain of hCASK binds to the heparan sulfate proteoglycan syndecan-2. This interaction is confirmed using in vitro binding assays and immunofluorescent colocalization. Furthermore, we demonstrate that hCASK binds the actin-binding protein 4.1. Syndecans are known to bind extracellular matrix, and to form coreceptor complexes with receptor tyrosine kinases. We speculate that CASK mediates a link between the extracellular matrix and the actin cytoskeleton via its interaction with syndecan and with protein 4.1. Like other membrane-associated guanylate kinases, its multidomain structure enables it to act as a scaffold at the membrane, potentially recruiting multiple proteins and coordinating signal transduction.
9660940	A novel human WD protein, h-beta TrCp, that interacts with HIV-1 Vpu connects CD4 to the ER degradation pathway through an F-box motif.	HIV-1 Vpu interacts with CD4 in the endoplasmic reticulum and triggers CD4 degradation, presumably by proteasomes. Human beta TrCP identified by interaction with Vpu connects CD4 to this proteolytic machinery, and CD4-Vpu-beta TrCP ternary complexes have been detected by coimmunoprecipitation. beta TrCP binding to Vpu and its recruitment to membranes require two phosphoserine residues in Vpu essential for CD4 degradation. In beta TrCP, WD repeats at the C terminus mediate binding to Vpu, and an F box near the N terminus is involved in interaction with Skp1p, a targeting factor for ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. An F-box deletion mutant of beta TrCP had a dominant-negative effect on Vpu-mediated CD4 degradation. These data suggest that beta TrCP and Skp1p represent components of a novel ER-associated protein degradation pathway that mediates CD4 proteolysis.
9660950	Phosphorylation of NF-kappa B p65 by PKA stimulates transcriptional activity by promoting a novel bivalent interaction with the coactivator CBP/p300.	The transcriptional activity of NF-kappa B is stimulated upon phosphorylation of its p65 subunit on serine 276 by protein kinase A (PKA). The transcriptional coactivator CPB/p300 associates with NF-kappa B p65 through two sites, an N-terminal domain that interacts with the C-terminal region of unphosphorylated p65, and a second domain that only interacts with p65 phosphorylated on serine 276. Accessibility to both sites is blocked in unphosphorylated p65 through an intramolecular masking of the N terminus by the C-terminal region of p65. Phosphorylation by PKA both weakens the interaction between the N- and C-terminal regions of p65 and creates an additional site for interaction with CBP/p300. Therefore, PKA regulates the transcriptional activity of NF-kappa B by modulating its interaction with CBP/p300.
9668110	A human HAP1 homologue. Cloning, expression, and interaction with huntingtin.	Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by the expansion of a glutamine repeat in the protein huntingtin. The expanded glutamine repeat is thought to mediate a gain of function by causing huntingtin to abnormally interact with other proteins. We previously identified a rat huntingtin-associated protein (HAP1) that binds to huntingtin; HAP1 binds more tightly to huntingtin with an expanded glutamine repeat than to wild type huntingtin. Identification of the human homologue of HAP1 is necessary for investigation of the potential role of HAP1 in HD pathology. Here, we report the cloning of a human HAP1 homologue (hHAP) that shares 62% identity with rat HAP1 over its entire sequence and 82% amino acid identity in the putative huntingtin-binding region. The hHAP gene encodes a 4.1-kilobase transcript and a 75-kDa protein which are specifically expressed in human brain tissues. Its expression in Huntington's disease brains is reduced in parallel with a decreased expression of huntingtin. While two isoforms of rat HAP1 are expressed at similar levels in rat brain, only a single major form of hHAP is found in primate brains. In vitro binding, immunoprecipitation, and coexpression studies confirm the interaction of hHAP with huntingtin. The in vitro binding of hHAP to huntingtin is enhanced by lengthening the glutamine repeat. Despite similar binding properties of rat HAP1 and hHAP, differences in the sequences and expression of hHAP may contribute to a specific role for its interaction with huntingtin in humans.
9670025	Structure of T7 RNA polymerase complexed to the transcriptional inhibitor T7 lysozyme.	The T7 RNA polymerase-T7 lysozyme complex regulates phage gene expression during infection of Escherichia coli. The 2.8 A crystal structure of the complex reveals that lysozyme binds at a site remote from the polymerase active site, suggesting an indirect mechanism of inhibition. Comparison of the T7 RNA polymerase structure with that of the homologous pol I family of DNA polymerases reveals identities in the catalytic site but also differences specific to RNA polymerase function. The structure of T7 RNA polymerase presented here differs significantly from a previously published structure. Sequence similarities between phage RNA polymerases and those from mitochondria and chloroplasts, when interpreted in the context of our revised model of T7 RNA polymerase, suggest a conserved fold.
9671498	Disruption of PML subnuclear domains by the acidic IE1 protein of human cytomegalovirus is mediated through interaction with PML and may modulate a RING finger-dependent cryptic transactivator function of PML.	Both of the major immediate-early (IE) proteins IE1 and IE2 of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) as well as input viral DNA and sites of viral IE transcription colocalize with or adjacent to punctate PML domains (PML oncogenic domains [PODs] or nuclear domain 10) in the nucleus within the first few hours after infection of permissive human fibroblasts. However, colocalization of IE1 and PML in PODs is only transient, with both proteins subsequently redistributing into a nuclear diffuse form. These processes are believed to promote efficient viral IE transcription and initiation of DNA synthesis especially at low multiplicities of infection. To examine the mechanism of PML displacement by IE1, we carried out indirect immunofluorescence assay experiments with plasmids expressing intact or deleted forms of PML and IE1 in DNA-transfected cells. The results demonstrated that deletion of the C-terminal acidic region of IE1 uncouples the requirements for displacement of both endogenous and coexpressed PML from those needed to target to the PODs. Mutant PML proteins containing either a Cys point mutation within the N-terminal RING finger domain or a small deletion (of positions 281 to 304) within the coiled-coil region did not localize to the PODs but instead gave a nuclear diffuse distribution, similar to that produced by intact PML in the presence of IE1. Endogenous PML also colocalized with IE1 in metaphase chromosomes in HCMV or recombinant adenovirus type 5-IE1-infected HF cells undergoing mitosis, implying that there may be a direct physical interaction between IE1 and PML. Indeed, a specific interaction between IE1 and PML was observed in a yeast two-hybrid assay, and the strength of this interaction was comparable to that of IE2 with the retinoblastoma protein. The RING finger mutant form of PML showed a threefold-lower interaction with IE1 in the yeast system, and deletion of the N-terminal RING finger domain of PML abolished the interaction. Consistent with the IFA results, a mutant IE1 protein that lacks the C-terminal acidic region was sufficient for interaction with PML in the yeast system. The two-hybrid interaction assay also showed that both the N-terminal RING finger domain and the intact coiled-coil region of PML are required cooperatively for efficient self-interactions involving dimerization or oligomerization. Furthermore, truncated or deleted GAL4/PML fusion proteins that retained the RING finger domain but lacked the intact coiled-coil region displayed an unmasked cryptic transactivator function in both yeast and mammalian cells, and the RING finger mutation abolished this transactivation property of PML. Therefore, we suggest that a direct interaction between IE1 and the N-terminal RING finger domain of PML may inhibit oligomerization and protein-protein complex formation by PML, leading to displacement of PML and IE1 from the PODs, and that this interaction may also modulate a putative conditional transactivator function of PML.
9671501	Identification of a translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3) core complex, conserved in yeast and mammals, that interacts with eIF5.	Only five of the nine subunits of human eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3) have recognizable homologs encoded in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome, and only two of these (Prt1p and Tif34p) were identified previously as subunits of yeast eIF3. We purified a polyhistidine-tagged form of Prt1p (His-Prt1p) by Ni2+ affinity and gel filtration chromatography and obtained a complex of approximately 600 kDa composed of six polypeptides whose copurification was completely dependent on the polyhistidine tag on His-Prt1p. All five polypeptides associated with His-Prt1p were identified by mass spectrometry, and four were found to be the other putative homologs of human eIF3 subunits encoded in S. cerevisiae: YBR079c/Tif32p, Nip1p, Tif34p, and YDR429c/Tif35p. The fifth Prt1p-associated protein was eIF5, an initiation factor not previously known to interact with eIF3. The purified complex could rescue Met-tRNAiMet binding to 40S ribosomes in defective extracts from a prt1 mutant or extracts from which Nip1p had been depleted, indicating that it possesses a known biochemical activity of eIF3. These findings suggest that Tif32p, Nip1p, Prt1p, Tif34p, and Tif35p comprise an eIF3 core complex, conserved between yeast and mammals, that stably interacts with eIF5. Nip1p bound to eIF5 in yeast two-hybrid and in vitro protein binding assays. Interestingly, Sui1p also interacts with Nip1p, and both eIF5 and Sui1p have been implicated in accurate recognition of the AUG start codon. Thus, eIF5 and Sui1p may be recruited to the 40S ribosomes through physical interactions with the Nip1p subunit of eIF3.
9677430	Association of p59(fyn) with the T lymphocyte costimulatory receptor CD2. Binding of the Fyn Src homology (SH) 3 domain is regulated by the Fyn SH2 domain.	Human CD2 is a 50-55-kDa cell surface receptor specifically expressed on the surface of T lymphocytes and NK cells. Stimulation of human peripheral blood T cells with mitogenic pairs of anti-CD2 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) is sufficient to induce interleukin-2 production and T cell proliferation in the absence of an antigen-specific signal through the T cell receptor. CD2 has been shown previously to associate physically with the Src family protein-tyrosine kinases p56(lck) and p59(fyn). We now report that stimulation of T cells with mitogenic pairs of anti-CD2 mAbs enhanced the association of the Fyn polypeptide with the CD2 complex, whereas stimulation with single anti-CD2 mAb had minimal effect. Using glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins, we found that CD2 bound to the Src homology (SH) 3 domain of Fyn. Interestingly, the CD2-Fyn association was negatively regulated by the Fyn SH2 domain; CD2 bound poorly to GST fusion proteins expressing both the SH2 and SH3 domains of Fyn. However, the inhibitory effect of the Fyn SH2 domain on binding of the Fyn SH3 domain to CD2 was relieved by peptides containing a phosphorylated YEEI sequence that bound directly to the Fyn SH2 domain. In addition, we found that the ability of the Fyn SH2 domain to precipitate tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins, including the CD3zeta chain, was enhanced after T cell stimulation with mitogenic pairs of CD2 mAbs. Finally, overexpression of a mutated Fyn molecule, in which the ability of the Fyn SH2 domain to bind phosphotyrosine-containing proteins was abrogated, inhibited CD2-induced transcriptional activation of the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT), suggesting a functional involvement of the Fyn SH2 domain in CD2-induced T cell signaling. We thus propose that stimulation through the CD2 receptor leads to the tyrosine phosphorylation of intracellular proteins, including CD3zeta itself, which in turn bind to the Fyn-SH2 domain, allowing the direct association of the Fyn SH3 domain with CD2 and the initiation of downstream signaling events.
9680483	Insights into the mechanism of heterodimerization from the 1H-NMR solution structure of the c-Myc-Max heterodimeric leucine zipper.	The oncoprotein c-Myc (a member of the helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper (b-HLH-LZ) family of transcription factors) must heterodimerize with the b-HLH-LZ Max protein to bind DNA and activate transcription. It has been shown that the LZ domains of the c-Myc and Max proteins specifically form a heterodimeric LZ at 20 degreesC and neutral pH. This suggests that the LZ domains of the c-Myc and Max proteins are playing an important role in the heterodimerization of the corresponding gene products in vivo. Initially, to gain an insight into the energetics of heterodimerization, we studied the stability of N-terminal disulfide-linked versions of the c-Myc and Max homodimeric LZs and c-Myc-Max heterodimeric LZ by fitting the temperature-induced denaturation curves monitored by circular dichroism spectroscopy. The c-Myc LZ does not homodimerize (as previously reported) and the c-Myc-Max heterodimeric LZ is more stable than the Max homodimeric LZ at 20 degreesC and pH 7.0. In order to determine the critical interhelical interactions responsible for the molecular recognition between the c-Myc and Max LZs, the solution structure of the disulfide-linked c-Myc-Max heterodimeric LZ was solved by two-dimensional 1H-NMR techniques at 25 degreesC and pH 4.7. Both LZs are alpha-helical and the tertiary structure depicts the typical left-handed super-helical twist of a two-stranded parallel alpha-helical coiled-coil. A buried salt bridge involving a histidine on the Max LZ and two glutamate residues on the c-Myc LZ is observed at the interface of the heterodimeric LZ. A buried H-bond between an asparagine side-chain and a backbone carbonyl is also observed. Moreover, evidence for e-g interhelical salt bridges is reported. These specific interactions give insights into the preferential heterodimerization process of the two LZs. The low stabilities of the Max homodimeric LZ and the c-Myc-Max heterodimeric LZ as well as the specific interactions observed are discussed with regard to regulation of transcription in this family of transcription factors.
9681826	Interaction of radixin with Rho small G protein GDP/GTP exchange protein Dbl.	The Rho small G protein family, consisting of the Rho, Rac, and Cdc42 subfamilies, regulates various actin cytoskeleton-dependent cell functions. The Rho subfamily members regulate ERM (ezrin, radixin and moesin)-dependent association of the actin cytoskeleton with the plasma membrane. Moreover, the N-terminal regions of ERM interact with Rho GDI, an inhibitory regulator of all the Rho family members, and reduce its inhibitory action, finally initiating the activation of the Rho family members. We show here that the N-terminal region of radixin furthermore interacts with Dbl, a stimulatory GDP/GTP exchange protein of the Rho family members. This interaction does not affect the Dbl activity to stimulate the GDP/GTP exchange reaction of RhoA, a member of the Rho subfamily. Dbl does not interact with radixin which is precomplexed with Rho GDI, and Rho GDI displaces Dbl from radixin. Thus, radixin plays an important role in activation of the Rho family members by recruiting their positive and negative regulators.
9683573	A novel human DnaJ protein, hTid-1, a homolog of the Drosophila tumor suppressor protein Tid56, can interact with the human papillomavirus type 16 E7 oncoprotein.	We have cloned hTid-1, a human homolog of the Drosophila tumor suppressor protein Tid56, by virtue of its ability to form complexes with the human papillomavirus E7 oncoprotein. The carboxyl terminal cysteine-rich metal binding domain of E7 is the major determinant for interaction with hTid-1. The carboxyl terminus of E7 is essential for the functional and structural integrity of E7 and has previously been shown to function as a multimerization domain. The hTid-1 protein is a member of the DnaJ-family of chaperones. Its mRNA is widely expressed in human tissues, including the HPV-18-positive cervical carcinoma cell line HeLa and human genital keratinocytes, the normal host cells of the HPVs. The hTid-1 gene has been mapped to the short arm of chromosome 16. The large tumor antigens of polyomaviruses encode functional J-domains that are important for viral replication as well as cellular transformation. The ability of HPV E7 to interact with a cellular DnaJ protein suggests that these two viral oncoproteins may target common regulatory pathways through J-domains.
9687373	A novel strategy for inhibition of alpha-amylases: yellow meal worm alpha-amylase in complex with the Ragi bifunctional inhibitor at 2.5 A resolution.	BACKGROUND: alpha-Amylases catalyze the hydrolysis of alpha-D-(1,4)-glucan linkages in starch and related compounds. There is a wide range of industrial and medical applications for these enzymes and their inhibitors. The Ragi bifunctional alpha-amylase/trypsin inhibitor (RBI) is the prototype of the cereal inhibitor superfamily and is the only member of this family that inhibits both trypsin and alpha-amylases. The mode of inhibition of alpha-amylases by these cereal inhibitors has so far been unknown. RESULTS: The crystal structure of yellow meal worm alpha-amylase (TMA) in complex with RBI was determined at 2.5 A resolution. RBI almost completely fills the substrate-binding site of TMA. Specifically, the free N terminus and the first residue (Ser1) of RBI interact with all three acidic residues of the active site of TMA (Asp185, Glu222 and Asp287). The complex is further stabilized by extensive interactions between the enzyme and inhibitor. Although there is no significant structural reorientation in TMA upon inhibitor binding, the N-terminal segment of RBI, which is highly flexible in the free inhibitor, adopts a 3(10)-helical conformation in the complex. RBI's trypsin-binding loop is located opposite the alpha-amylase-binding site, allowing simultaneous binding of alpha-amylase and trypsin. CONCLUSIONS: The binding of RBI to TMA constitutes a new inhibition mechanism for alpha-amylases and should be general for all alpha-amylase inhibitors of the cereal inhibitor superfamily. Because RBI inhibits two important digestive enzymes of animals, it constitutes an efficient plant defense protein and may be used to protect crop plants from predatory insects.
9689041	Interaction of the DNA modifying proteins VirD1 and VirD2 of Agrobacterium tumefaciens: analysis by subcellular localization in mammalian cells.	Interaction between Agrobacterium tumefaciens and plants provides a unique example of interkingdom gene transfer. Agrobacterium, a plant pathogen, is capable to stably transform the plant cell with a segment of its own DNA called T-DNA (transferred DNA). This process depends, among others, on the specialized bacterial virulence proteins VirD1 and VirD2 that excise the T-DNA from its adjacent sequences. Subsequent to transfer to the plant cell, the virulence protein VirD2, through its nuclear localization signal (NLS), is believed to guide the T-DNA to the nucleus. The T-DNA then is integrated into the plant genome. Although both of these proteins are essential for bacterial virulence, physical interaction of them has not been analyzed so far. We studied associations between these proteins by expressing them in mammalian cells and by testing for intracellular localization and colocalization. When expressed in human cells [HeLa, human embryo kidney (HEK) 293], the VirD2 protein homogeneously distributed over the nucleoplasm. The presence of any of two NLSs, on the N and C termini of VirD2, was sufficient for its efficient nuclear localization whereas deletion of both NLSs rendered the protein cytoplasmic. However, this double NLS mutant was translocated to the nucleus in the presence of wild-type VirD2 protein, implying VirD2-VirD2 interaction. The VirD1 protein, by itself localized in the cytoplasm, moved to the nucleus when coexpressed with the VirD2 protein, suggesting VirD1-VirD2 interaction. This interaction was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation tests. Of interest, both proteins coimported to the nucleus showed a similar, peculiar sublocalization. The data are discussed in terms of functions of the VirD proteins. In addition, coimport of proteins into nuclei is suggested as a useful system in studying individual protein-protein interactions.
9690470	The structural basis of the activation of Ras by Sos.	The crystal structure of human H-Ras complexed with the Ras guanine-nucleotide-exchange-factor region of the Son of sevenless (Sos) protein has been determined at 2.8 A resolution. The normally tight interaction of nucleotides with Ras is disrupted by Sos in two ways. First, the insertion into Ras of an alpha-helix from Sos results in the displacement of the Switch 1 region of Ras, opening up the nucleotide-binding site. Second, side chains presented by this helix and by a distorted conformation of the Switch 2 region of Ras alter the chemical environment of the binding site for the phosphate groups of the nucleotide and the associated magnesium ion, so that their binding is no longer favoured. Sos does not impede the binding sites for the base and the ribose of GTP or GDP, so the Ras-Sos complex adopts a structure that allows nucleotide release and rebinding.
9694898	Multiple molecular chaperones interact with apolipoprotein B during its maturation. The network of endoplasmic reticulum-resident chaperones (ERp72, GRP94, calreticulin, and BiP) interacts with apolipoprotein b regardless of its lipidation state.	The present study was undertaken to identify and characterize molecular chaperones that assist in the folding of apolipoprotein (apo) B, a secretory protein that requires assembly with lipids (lipidation) for its secretion. Both HepG2 cells, normally secreting full-length apoB (apoB-100), and C127 cells transfected to secrete truncated forms of apoB, apoB-41, apoB-29, and apoB-17, respectively, were employed. C127 cells were used to determine whether chaperone binding is dependent on apoB lipidation as they secrete both unlipidated and lipidated apoB forms despite their lack of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP), which mediates lipidation of apoB in HepG2 cells. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident molecular chaperones GRP94, calreticulin, and ERp72 were co-immunoprecipitated with apoB-100 from HepG2 cell lysates following cross-linking of proteins in living cells. The same chaperones including BiP/GRP78 were also associated with all truncated forms of apoB. Sequential immunoprecipitation with antibodies to MTP and apoB revealed the presence of ternary complexes containing apoB-100, MTP, and ERp72. However, MTP is not obligatory for the binding of ERp72 as it was associated with all truncated forms of apoB in C127 cells that lack MTP. The interactions between apoB-100 and ERp72 or GRP94 persisted for at least 2 h following a 30-min pulse. Thus, BiP/GRP78, calreticulin, ERp72, and GRP94 may participate in critical steps in the folding of apoB before any substantial lipidation occurs. ERp72 and GRP94 may also mediate the folding of more advanced folding intermediates and/or target the misfolded underlipidated pool of apoB for degradation.
9695952	Human TAF(II)28 and TAF(II)18 interact through a histone fold encoded by atypical evolutionary conserved motifs also found in the SPT3 family.	Determination of the crystal structure of the human TBP-associated factor (hTAF(II))28/hTAF(II)18 heterodimer shows that these TAF(II)s form a novel histone-like pair in the TFIID complex. The histone folds in hTAF(II)28 and hTAF(II)18 were not predicted from their primary sequence, indicating that these TAF(II)s define a novel family of atypical histone fold sequences. The TAF(II)18 and TAF(II)28 histone fold motifs are also present in the N- and C-terminal regions of the SPT3 proteins, suggesting that the histone fold in SPT3 may be reconstituted by intramolecular rather than classical intermolecular interactions. The existence of additional histone-like pairs in both the TFIID and SAGA complexes shows that the histone fold is a more commonly used motif for mediating TAF-TAF interactions than previously believed.
9698541	Interactions of the transcription/DNA repair factor TFIIH and XP repair proteins with DNA lesions in a cell-free repair assay.	We have studied the interactions between DNA damage and human proteins involved in the early steps of nucleotide excision repair (NER) reaction under in vitro conditions with human protein extracts. By using a new assay, we have detected a long-lived DNA/protein complex involving XPA and TFIIH in the course of the NER process. The formation of this complex is exclusively limited to DNA lesions that are substrates of the human excinuclease. We show that, while XPA binding to damaged DNA is ATP-independent, stable association of TFIIH with DNA lesions is promoted by ATP hydrolysis and is dependent on the integrity of XPA and XPC proteins in the cell extract. In addition, XPC is necessary to promote a stable binding of XPA to UV-irradiated DNA. Finally, the co-binding of XPA and TFIIH to DNA damage is correlated to a dose-dependent titration of TFIIH and not XPA from the free protein fraction.
9698550	Structural basis for the binding of an anti-cytochrome c antibody to its antigen: crystal structures of FabE8-cytochrome c complex to 1.8 A resolution and FabE8 to 2.26 A resolution.	A complete understanding of antibody-antigen association and specificity requires the stereochemical description of both antigen and antibody before and upon complex formation. The structural mechanism involved in the binding of the IgG1 monoclonal antibody E8 to its highly charged protein antigen horse cytochrome c (cyt c) is revealed by crystallographic structures of the antigen-binding fragment (Fab) of E8 bound to cyt c (FabE8-cytc), determined to 1.8 A resolution, and of uncomplexed Fab E8 (FabE8), determined to 2.26 A resolution. E8 antibody binds to three major discontiguous segments (33 to 39; 56 to 66; 96 to 104), and two minor sites on cyt c opposite to the exposed haem edge. Crystallographic definition of the E8 epitope complements and extends biochemical mapping and two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance with hydrogen-deuterium exchange studies. These combined results demonstrate that antibody-induced stabilization of secondary structural elements within the antigen can propagate locally to adjacent residues outside the epitope. Pre-existing shape complementarity at the FabE8-cytc interface is enhanced by 48 bound water molecules, and by local movements of up to 4.2 A for E8 antibody and 8.9 A for cyt c. Glu62, Asn103 and the C-terminal Glu104 of cyt c adjust to fit the pre-formed VL "hill" and VH "valley" shape of the grooved E8 paratope. All six E8 complementarity determining regions (CDRs) contact the antigen, with CDR L1 forming 46% of the total atomic contacts, and CDRs L1 (29%) and H3 (20%) contributing the highest percentage of the total surface area of E8 buried by cyt c (550 A2). The E8 antibody covers 534 A2 of the cyt c surface. The formation of five ion pairs between E8 and flexible cyt c residues Lys60, Glu62 and Glu104 suggests the importance of mobile regions and electrostatic interactions in providing the exquisite specificity needed for recognition of this extremely conserved protein antigen. The highly homologous VL domains of E8 and anti-lysozyme antibody D1. 3 achieve their distinct antigen-binding specificities by expanding the impact of their limited sequence differences through the recruitment of different sets of conserved residues and distinctly different CDR L3 conformations.
9700202	Huntingtin interacts with a family of WW domain proteins.	The hallmark neuropathology of Huntington's disease (HD) is due to elongation of a polyglutamine segment in huntingtin, a novel approximately 350 kDa protein of unknown function. We used a yeast two-hybrid interactor screen to identify proteins whose association with huntingtin might be altered in the pathogenic process. Surprisingly, no interactors were found with internal and C-terminal segments of huntingtin. In contrast, huntingtin's N-terminus detected 13 distinct proteins, seven novel and six reported previously. Among these, we identified a major interactor class, comprising three distinct WW domain proteins, HYPA, HYPB and HYPC, that bind normal and mutant huntingtin in extracts of HD lymphoblastoid cells. This interaction is mediated by huntingtin's proline-rich region and is enhanced by lengthening the adjacent glutamine tract. Although HYPB and HYPC are novel, HYPA is human FBP-11, a protein implicated in spliceosome function. The emergence of this class of proteins as huntingtin partners argues that a WW domain-mediated process, such as non-receptor signaling, protein degradation or pre-mRNA splicing, may participate in HD pathogenesis.
9701578	Control of meristem development by CLAVATA1 receptor kinase and kinase-associated protein phosphatase interactions	The CLAVATA1 (CLV1) gene encodes a putative receptor kinase required for the proper balance between cell proliferation and differentiation in Arabidopsis shoot and flower meristems. Impaired CLV1 signaling results in masses of undifferentiated cells at the shoot and floral meristems. Although many putative receptor kinases have been identified in plants, the mechanism of signal transduction mediated by plant receptor-like kinases is largely unknown. One potential effector of receptor kinase signaling is kinase-associated protein phosphatase (KAPP), a protein that binds to multiple plant receptor-like kinases in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. To examine a possible role for KAPP in CLV1-dependent plant development, the interaction of CLV1 and KAPP was investigated in vitro and in vivo. KAPP binds directly to autophosphorylated CLV1 in vitro and co-immunoprecipitates with CLV1 in plant extracts derived from meristematic tissue. Reduction of KAPP transcript accumulation in an intermediate clv1 mutant suppresses the mutant phenotype, and the degree of suppression is inversely correlated with KAPP mRNA levels. These data suggest that KAPP functions as a negative regulator of CLV1 signaling in plant development. This may represent a general model for the interaction of KAPP with receptor kinases.
9705868	Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 binds to the C-terminal region of human minichromosome maintenance 7 protein.	Oncoprotein E6 of the human papillomavirus (HPV) associated with cervical cancer (HPV-16 and -18) degrades tumor suppressor protein p53, but seems to have p53-independent transforming functions. We searched for other cellular targets for the N-terminal region of HPV-16 E6 using a yeast two-hybrid system. The E6 was found to bind to the C-terminal region of a human minichromosome maintenance 7 (hMCM7) protein, which is a component of replication licensing factors. The full-length hMCM7 translated in vitro was capable of binding to bacterially expressed E6. In yeast cells the E6s of the cancer-associated HPVs (HPV-16, -18, and -58) bound to hMCM7 more strongly than those of the HPVs associated with a benign tumor (HPV-6 and -11). Binding of E6 with hMCM7 may cause chromosomal abnormalities found in the human cells expressing E6s of oncogenic HPVs.
9705938	Identification of CARDIAK, a RIP-like kinase that associates with caspase-1.	Members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily have an important role in the induction of cellular signals resulting in cell growth, differentiation and death. TNFR-1 recruits and assembles a signaling complex containing a number of death domain (DD)-containing proteins, including the adaptor protein TRADD and the serine/threonine kinase RIP, which mediates TNF-induced NF-kappa B activation. RIP also recruits caspase-2 to the TNFR-1 signaling complex via the adaptor protein RAIDD, which contains a DD and a caspase-recruiting domain (CARD). Here, we have identified a RIP-like kinase, termed CARDIAK (for CARD-containing interleukin (IL)-1 beta converting enzyme (ICE) associated kinase), which contains a serine/threonine kinase domain and a carboxy-terminal CARD. Overexpression of CARDIAK induced the activation of both NF-kappa B and Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). CARDIAK interacted with the TNFR-associated factors TRAF-1 and TRAF-2, and a dominant-negative form of TRAF-2 inhibited CARDIAK-induced NF-kappa B activation. Interestingly, CARDIAK specifically interacted with the CARD of caspase-1 (previously known as ICE), and this interaction correlated with the processing of pro-caspase-1 and the formation of the active p20 subunit of caspase-1. Together, these data suggest that CARDIAK may be involved in NF-kappa B/JNK signaling and in the generation of the proinflammatory cytokine IL-1 beta through activation of caspase-1.
9707552	PDZ-domain-mediated interaction of the Eph-related receptor tyrosine kinase EphB3 and the ras-binding protein AF6 depends on the kinase activity of the receptor.	Eph-related receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) have been implicated in intercellular communication during embryonic development. To elucidate their signal transduction pathways, we applied the yeast two-hybrid system. We could demonstrate that the carboxyl termini of the Eph-related RTKs EphA7, EphB2, EphB3, EphB5, and EphB6 interact with the PDZ domain of the ras-binding protein AF6. A mutational analysis revealed that six C-terminal residues of the receptors are involved in binding to the PDZ domain of AF6 in a sequence-specific fashion. Moreover, this PDZ domain also interacts with C-terminal sequences derived from other transmembrane receptors such as neurexins and the Notch ligand Jagged. In contrast to the association of EphB3 to the PDZ domain of AF6, the interaction with full-length AF6 clearly depends on the kinase activity of EphB3, suggesting a regulated mechanism for the PDZ-domain-mediated interaction. These data gave rise to the idea that the binding of AF6 to EphB3 occurs in a cooperative fashion because of synergistic effects involving different epitopes of both proteins. Moreover, in NIH 3T3 and NG108 cells endogenous AF6 is phosphorylated specifically by EphB3 and EphB2 in a ligand-dependent fashion. Our observations add the PDZ domain to the group of conserved protein modules such as Src-homology-2 (SH2) and phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) domains that regulate signal transduction through their ability to mediate the interaction with RTKs.
9707615	ATM binds to beta-adaptin in cytoplasmic vesicles.	Inherited mutations in the ATM gene lead to a complex clinical phenotype characterized by neuronal degeneration, oculocutaneous telangiectasias, immune dysfunction, and cancer predisposition. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we demonstrate that ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) binds to beta-adaptin, one of the components of the AP-2 adaptor complex, which is involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis of receptors. The interaction between ATM and beta-adaptin was confirmed in vitro, and coimmunoprecipitation and colocalization studies show that the proteins also associate in vivo. ATM also interacts in vitro with beta-NAP, a neuronal-specific beta-adaptin homolog that was identified as an autoantigen in a patient with cerebellar degeneration. Our data describing the association of ATM with beta-adaptin in vesicles indicate that ATM may play a role in intracellular vesicle and/or protein transport mechanisms.
9707644	A novel signal recognition particle targets light-harvesting proteins to the thylakoid membranes	The mechanisms involved in the posttranslational targeting of membrane proteins are not well understood. The light-harvesting chlorophyll proteins (LHCP) of the thylakoid membrane are a large family of hydrophobic proteins that are targeted in this manner. They are synthesized in the cytoplasm, translocated across the chloroplast envelope membranes into the stroma, bound by a stromal factor to form a soluble intermediate, "transit complex", and then integrated into the thylakoid membrane by a GTP dependent reaction. Signal recognition particle (SRP), a cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein, is known to mediate the GTP dependent cotranslational targeting of proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum. We show that chloroplasts contain an SRP consisting of, cpSRP54, a homologue of SRP54 and a previously undescribed 43-kDa polypeptide (cpSRP43) instead of an RNA. We demonstrate that both subunits of cpSRP are required for the formation of the transit complex with LHCP. Furthermore, cpSRP54, cpSRP43, and LHCP are sufficient to form a complex that appears to be identical to authentic transit complex. We also show that the complex formed between LHCP and cpSRP, together with an additional soluble factor(s) are required for the proper integration of LHCP into the thylakoid membrane. It appears that the expanded role of cpSRP in posttranslational targeting of LHCP has arisen through the evolution of the 43-kDa protein.
9712877	Structure of an Fab fragment against a C-terminal peptide of hCG at 2.0 A resolution.	3A2 is an antibody raised against human chorionic gonadotropin and recognizes a linear epitope on the C-terminal peptide of the human chorionic gonadotropin beta-subunit. Its three-dimensional structure has been determined to 2-A resolution using molecular replacement and refined to a conventional R-factor of 18.2%. The protein exhibits the typical immunoglobulin fold, and the model contains 944 ordered water molecules and one sulfate ion. A comparison of the complementarity-determining regions of the Fab3A2 with those from the Protein Data Bank following the canonical structure method reveals a canonical main chain conformation. This antibody belongs to the canonical structure class (combination of canonical conformations of the complementarity determining loops) that shows a preference for haptens and not for peptides. However, the shape of the surface of the antigen binding loops resembles that of an anti-peptide antibody.
9716598	SLP-76-Cbl-Grb2-Shc interactions in FcgammaRI signaling.	SLP-76 and Cbl are complex adapter proteins that have the capacity to bind to smaller adapter proteins, such as Grb2, which subsequently binds the nucleotide exchange protein Sos in the transmission of intracellular signals. SLP-76, Cbl, Shc, and Grb2 have been implicated in immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling, leading to activation of Ras. However, their mechanism of action has not been determined. To date, there have been no reports of SLP-76 involvement in FcgammaRI-receptor signaling and no data exist for an interaction between Cbl, Shc, and SLP-76 in vivo. We provide evidence that SLP-76, Cbl, and Shc are tyrosine phosphorylated on FcgammaRI-receptor stimulation and are associated with the adapter protein Grb2 in gamma-interferon-differentiated U937 cells (U937IF). The interactions between SLP-76 and Cbl and SLP-76 and Grb2 are present in resting U937IF cells. However, the interaction between SLP-76 and Grb2 becomes augmented twofold on FcgammaRI-receptor aggregation. Our results provide the first evidence for a phosphorylation-dependent interaction between SLP-76 and Shc, induced at least 10-fold on FcgammaRI receptor stimulation. Our data indicate that a significant portion of a multimolecular complex containing Cbl, SLP-76, Shc, and Grb2 is distinct from a trimolecular complex containing the Ras guanine nucleotide exchanger Sos, Shc, and Grb2. FcgammaRI-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of SLP-76, Cbl, Shc, and the highly induced SLP-76-Shc interaction provide the first evidence that SLP-76 and Cbl are involved in FcgammaRI signaling and suggest a functional significance for these interactions in FcgammaRI signal relay in the control of Ras in myeloid cells.
9723620	Epsin is an EH-domain-binding protein implicated in clathrin-mediated endocytosis.	During endocytosis, clathrin and the clathrin adaptor protein AP-2, assisted by a variety of accessory factors, help to generate an invaginated bud at the cell membrane. One of these factors is Eps15, a clathrin-coat-associated protein that binds the alpha-adaptin subunit of AP-2. Here we investigate the function of Eps15 by characterizing an important binding partner for its region containing EH domains; this protein, epsin, is closely related to the Xenopus mitotic phosphoprotein MP90 and has a ubiquitous tissue distribution. It is concentrated together with Eps15 in presynaptic nerve terminals, which are sites specialized for the clathrin-mediated endocytosis of synaptic vesicles. The central region of epsin binds AP-2 and its carboxy-terminal region binds Eps15. Epsin is associated with clathrin coats in situ, can be co-precipitated with AP-2 and Eps15 from brain extracts, but does not co-purify with clathrin coat components in a clathrin-coated vesicle fraction. When epsin function is disrupted, clathrin-mediated endocytosis is blocked. We propose that epsin may participate, together with Eps15, in the molecular rearrangement of the clathrin coats that are required for coated-pit invagination and vesicle fission.
97236811	The molecular interaction of Fas and FAP-1. A tripeptide blocker of human Fas interaction with FAP-1 promotes Fas-induced apoptosis.	Fas (APO-1/CD95), which is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, is a cell surface receptor that induces apoptosis. A protein tyrosine phosphatase, Fas-associated phosphatase-1 (FAP-1), that was previously identified as a Fas binding protein interacts with the C-terminal 15 amino acids of the regulatory domain of the Fas receptor. To identify the minimal region of the Fas C-terminal necessary for binding to FAP-1, we employed an in vitro inhibition assay of Fas/FAP-1 binding using a series of synthetic peptides as well as a screen of random peptide libraries by the yeast two-hybrid system. The results showed that the C-terminal three amino acids (SLV) of human Fas were necessary and sufficient for its interaction with the third PDZ (GLGF) domain of FAP-1. Furthermore, the direct cytoplasmic microinjection of this tripeptide (Ac-SLV) resulted in the induction of Fas-mediated apoptosis in a colon cancer cell line that expresses both Fas and FAP-1. Since t(S/T)X(V/L/I) motifs in the C termini of several other receptors have been shown to interact with PDZ domain in signal transducing molecules, this may represent a general motif for protein-protein interactions with important biological functions.
9724632	Specific binding to a novel and essential Golgi membrane protein (Yip1p) functionally links the transport GTPases Ypt1p and Ypt31p.	The regulation of vesicular transport in eukaryotic cells involves Ras-like GTPases of the Ypt/Rab family. Studies in yeast and mammalian cells indicate that individual family members act in vesicle docking/fusion to specific target membranes. Using the two-hybrid system, we have now identified a 248 amino acid, integral membrane protein, termed Yip1, that specifically binds to the transport GTPases Ypt1p and Ypt31p. Evidence for physical interaction of these GTPases with Yip1p was also demonstrated by affinity chromatography and/or co-immunoprecipitation. Like the two GTPases, Yip1p is essential for yeast cell viability and, according to subcellular fractionation and indirect immunofluorescence, is located to Golgi membranes at steady state. Mutant cells depleted of Yip1p and conditionally lethal yip1 mutants at the non-permissive temperature massively accumulate endoplasmic reticulum membranes and display aberrations in protein secretion and glycosylation of secreted invertase. The results suggests for a role for Yip1p in recruiting the two GTPases to Golgi target membranes in preparation for fusion.
9724659	Crystal structure of the complex formed by the membrane type 1-matrix metalloproteinase with the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-2, the soluble progelatinase A receptor.	The proteolytic activity of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) towards extracellular matrix components is held in check by the tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs). The binary complex of TIMP-2 and membrane-type-1 MMP (MT1-MMP) forms a cell surface located 'receptor' involved in pro-MMP-2 activation. We have solved the 2.75 A crystal structure of the complex between the catalytic domain of human MT1-MMP (cdMT1-MMP) and bovine TIMP-2. In comparison with our previously determined MMP-3-TIMP-1 complex, both proteins are considerably tilted to one another and show new features. CdMT1-MMP, apart from exhibiting the classical MMP fold, displays two large insertions remote from the active-site cleft that might be important for interaction with macromolecular substrates. The TIMP-2 polypeptide chain, as in TIMP-1, folds into a continuous wedge; the A-B edge loop is much more elongated and tilted, however, wrapping around the S-loop and the beta-sheet rim of the MT1-MMP. In addition, both C-terminal edge loops make more interactions with the target enzyme. The C-terminal acidic tail of TIMP-2 is disordered but might adopt a defined structure upon binding to pro-MMP-2; the Ser2 side-chain of TIMP-2 extends into the voluminous S1' specificity pocket of cdMT1-MMP, with its Ogamma pointing towards the carboxylate of the catalytic Glu240. The lower affinity of TIMP-1 for MT1-MMP compared with TIMP-2 might be explained by a reduced number of favourable interactions.
9725902	Phosphorylation of sic1, a cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor, by Cdk including Pho85 kinase is required for its prompt degradation.	In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Sic1, an inhibitor of Clb-Cdc28 kinases, must be phosphorylated and degraded in G1 for cells to initiate DNA replication, and Cln-Cdc28 kinase appears to be primarily responsible for phosphorylation of Sic1. The Pho85 kinase is a yeast cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk), which is not essential for cell growth unless both CLN1 and CLN2 are absent. We demonstrate that Pho85, when complexed with Pcl1, a G1 cyclin homologue, can phosphorylate Sic1 in vitro, and that Sic1 appears to be more stable in pho85Delta cells. Three consensus Cdk phosphorylation sites present in Sic1 are phosphorylated in vivo, and two of them are required for prompt degradation of the inhibitor. Pho85 and other G1 Cdks appear to phosphorylate Sic1 at different sites in vivo. Thus at least two distinct Cdks can participate in phosphorylation of Sic1 and may therefore regulate progression through G1.
9726962	The copper chaperone CCS directly interacts with copper/zinc superoxide dismutase.	Dominantly inherited mutations in the gene encoding copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) result in the fatal motor neuron disease familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). These mutations confer a gain-of-function to SOD1 with neuronal degeneration resulting from enhanced free radical generating activity of the copper present in the mutant enzyme. The delivery of copper to SOD1 is mediated through a soluble factor identified as the copper chaperone for SOD1 (CCS). Amino acid sequence alignment of SOD1 and CCS reveals a striking homology with conservation of the amino acids essential for mediating SOD1 homodimerization. Here we demonstrate that CCS and SOD1 directly interact in vitro and in vivo and that this interaction is mediated via the homologous domains in each protein. Importantly, CCS interacts not only with wild-type SOD1 but also with SOD1 containing the common missense mutations resulting in FALS. Our findings therefore reveal a common mechanism whereby different SOD1 FALS mutants may result in neuronal injury and suggest a novel therapeutic approach in patients affected by this fatal disease.
9727029	Interaction of human suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS)-2 with the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor.	SOCS (suppressor of cytokine signaling) proteins have been shown to be negative regulators of cytokine receptor signaling via the Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway. We have cloned a member of this family (hSOCS-2) by utilizing the insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGF-IR) cytoplasmic domain as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen of a human fetal brain library. The hSOCS-2 protein interacted strongly with the activated IGF-IR and not with a kinase negative mutant receptor in the two-hybrid assay. Mutation of receptor tyrosines 950, 1250, 1251, and 1316 to phenylalanine or deletion of the COOH-terminal 93 amino acids did not result in decreased interaction of the receptor with hSOCS-2 protein. hSOCS-1 protein also interacted strongly with IGF-IR in the two-hybrid assay. Glutathione S-transferase-hSOCS-2 associated with activated IGF-IR in lysates of mouse fibroblasts overexpressing IGF-IR. Human embryonic kidney cells (293) were transiently transfected with vectors containing IGF-IR and FLAG epitope-tagged hSOCS-2. After IGF-I stimulation, activated IGF-IR was found in anti-FLAG immunoprecipitates and, conversely, FLAG-hSOCS-2 was found in anti IGF-IR immunoprecipitates. Thus, hSOCS-2 interacted with IGF-IR both in vitro and in vivo. HSOCS-2 mRNA was expressed in many human fetal and adult tissues with particularly high abundance in fetal kidney and adult heart, skeletal muscle, pancreas, and liver. These results raise the possibility that SOCS proteins may also play a regulatory role in IGF-I receptor signaling.
9727492	Cleavage of BID by caspase 8 mediates the mitochondrial damage in the Fas pathway of apoptosis.	We report here that BID, a BH3 domain-containing proapoptotic Bcl2 family member, is a specific proximal substrate of Casp8 in the Fas apoptotic signaling pathway. While full-length BID is localized in cytosol, truncated BID (tBID) translocates to mitochondria and thus transduces apoptotic signals from cytoplasmic membrane to mitochondria. tBID induces first the clustering of mitochondria around the nuclei and release of cytochrome c independent of caspase activity, and then the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, cell shrinkage, and nuclear condensation in a caspase-dependent fashion. Coexpression of BclxL inhibits all the apoptotic changes induced by tBID. Our results indicate that BID is a mediator of mitochondrial damage induced by Casp8.
9729040	The crystal structure of H-2Dd MHC class I complexed with the HIV-1-derived peptide P18-I10 at 2.4 A resolution: implications for T cell and NK cell recognition.	The structure of H-2Dd complexed with the HIV-derived peptide P18-I10 (RGPGRAFVTI) has been determined by X-ray crystallography at 2.4 A resolution. This MHC class I molecule has an unusual binding motif with four anchor residues in the peptide (G2, P3, R/K/H5, and I/L/F9 or 10). The cleft architecture of H-2Dd includes a deep narrow passage accomodating the N-terminal part of the peptide, explaining the obligatory G2P3 anchor motif. Toward the C-terminal half of the peptide, p5R to p8V form a type I' reverse turn; residues p6A to p9T, and in particular p7F, are readily exposed. The structure is discussed in relation to functional data available for T cell and natural killer cell recognition of the H-2Dd molecule.
9733772	Specific contribution of Tyk2 JH regions to the binding and the expression of the interferon alpha/beta receptor component IFNAR1.	Cytokine signaling involves the activation of the Janus kinase (JAK) family of tyrosine kinases. These enzymes are physically associated with cytokine receptor components. Here, we sought to define the molecular basis of the interaction between Tyk2 and IFNAR1, a component of the interferon alpha/beta receptor, by delimiting a minimal IFNAR1 binding region in the Tyk2 protein. Using an in vitro assay system, we narrowed down the interaction domain to a region comprising the JH7 and part of the JH6 homology boxes (amino acids 22-221). When expressed in Tyk2-negative cells, the JH7-6 region was unable to stabilize IFNAR1 protein levels, a critical function that we previously attributed to the N region (amino acids 1-591) of Tyk2. Moreover, substitution of the JH7-JH6 domain in JAK1 with that of Tyk2 did not restore IFNAR1 level nor interferon alpha signaling in Tyk2-negative cells. Thus, the major interaction surface lies within JH7-6, but additional JH regions (JH5-4-3) contribute in a specific manner to the in vivo assembly of Tyk2 and IFNAR1. Evidence is also provided of the lack of specificity of the Tyk2 kinase-like and tyrosine kinase domains in interferon alpha/beta receptor signaling.
9735369	miranda localizes staufen and prospero asymmetrically in mitotic neuroblasts and epithelial cells in early Drosophila embryogenesis.	When neuroblasts divide, prospero protein and mRNA segregate asymmetrically into the daughter neuroblast and sibling ganglion mother cell. miranda is known to localize prospero protein to the basal cell cortex of neuroblasts while the staufen RNA-binding protein mediates prospero mRNA localization. Here we show that miranda is required for asymmetric staufen localization in neuroblasts. Analyses using miranda mutants reveal that prospero and staufen interact with miranda under the same cell-cycle-dependent control. miranda thus acts to partition both prospero protein and mRNA. Furthermore, miranda localizes prospero and staufen to the basolateral cortex in dividing epithelial cells, which express the three proteins prior to neurogenesis. Our observations suggest that the epithelial cell and neuroblast (both of epithelial origin) share the same molecular machinery for creating cellular asymmetry.
9738006	The C-terminal (BRCT) domains of BRCA1 interact in vivo with CtIP, a protein implicated in the CtBP pathway of transcriptional repression.	The BRCA1 tumor suppressor encodes a polypeptide with two recognizable protein motifs: a RING domain near the N terminus and two tandem BRCT domains at the C terminus. Studies of tumor-associated mutations indicate that the RING and BRCT sequences are required for BRCA1-mediated tumor suppression. In addition, recent work has shown that BRCA1 is a potent regulator of RNA transcription and that the BRCT domains are also essential for this activity. Therefore, we used the Sos recruitment system to screen for proteins that bind this critical region of BRCA1. Our results show that the BRCT domains interact in vivo with CtIP, a protein originally identified on the basis of its association with the CtBP transcriptional co-repressor. This finding suggests that BRCA1 regulates gene expression, at least in part, by modulating CtBP-mediated transcriptional repression. Moreover, the in vivo interaction between BRCA1 and CtIP is completely ablated by each of three independent tumor-associated mutations affecting the BRCT motifs of BRCA1. These results indicate that the BRCA1-CtIP interaction may be required for tumor suppression by BRCA1.
9741622	Solution structure of a TBP-TAF(II)230 complex: protein mimicry of the minor groove surface of the TATA box unwound by TBP.	General transcription factor TFIID consists of TATA box-binding protein (TBP) and TBP-associated factors (TAF(II)s), which together play a central role in both positive and negative regulation of transcription. The N-terminal region of the 230 kDa Drosophila TAF(II) (dTAF(II)230) binds directly to TBP and inhibits TBP binding to the TATA box. We report here the solution structure of the complex formed by dTAF(II)230 N-terminal region (residues 11-77) and TBP. dTAF(II)230(11-77) comprises three alpha helices and a beta hairpin, forming a core that occupies the concave DNA-binding surface of TBP. The TBP-binding surface of dTAF(II)230 markedly resembles the minor groove surface of the partially unwound TATA box in the TBP-TATA complex. This protein mimicry of the TATA element surface provides the structural basis of the mechanism by which dTAF(II)230 negatively controls the TATA box-binding activity within the TFIID complex.
9741631	A novel adaptor protein orchestrates receptor patterning and cytoskeletal polarity in T-cell contacts.	Recognition of antigen by T cells requires the formation of a specialized junction between the T cell and the antigen-presenting cell. This junction is generated by the recruitment and the exclusion of specific proteins from the contact area. The mechanisms that regulate these events are unknown. Here we demonstrate that ligand engagement of the adhesion molecule, CD2, initiates a process of protein segregation, CD2 clustering, and cytoskeletal polarization. Although protein segregation was not dependent on the cytoplasmic domain of CD2, CD2 clustering and cytoskeletal polarization required an interaction of the CD2 cytoplasmic domain with a novel SH3-containing protein. This novel protein, called CD2AP, is likely to facilitate receptor patterning in the contact area by linking specific adhesion receptors to the cytoskeleton.
9742080	Point mutations in the WD40 domain of Eed block its interaction with Ezh2.	The Polycomb group proteins are involved in maintenance of the silenced state of several developmentally regulated genes. These proteins form large aggregates with different subunit compositions. To explore the nature of these complexes and their function, we used the full-length Eed (embryonic ectoderm development) protein, a mammalian homolog of the Drosophila Polycomb group protein Esc, as a bait in the yeast two-hybrid screen. Several strongly interacting cDNA clones were isolated. The cloned cDNAs all encoded the 150- to 200-amino-acid N-terminal fragment of the mammalian homolog of the Drosophila Enhancer of zeste [E(z)] protein, Ezh2. The full-length Ezh2 bound strongly to Eed in vitro, and Eed coimmunoprecipitated with Ezh2 from murine 70Z/3 cell extracts, confirming the interaction between these proteins observed in yeast. Mutations T1031A and T1040C in one of the WD40 repeats of Eed, which account for the hypomorphic and lethal phenotype of eed in mouse development, blocked binding of Ezh2 to Eed in a two-hybrid interaction in yeast and in mammalian cells. These mutations also blocked the interaction between these proteins in vitro. In mammalian cells, the Gal4-Eed fusion protein represses the activity of a promoter bearing Gal4 DNA elements. The N-terminal fragment of the Ezh2 protein abolished the transcriptional repressor activity of Gal4-Eed protein when they were coexpressed in mammalian cells. Eed and Ezh2 were also found to bind RNA in vitro, and RNA altered the interaction between these proteins. These findings suggest that Polycomb group proteins Eed and Ezh2 functionally interact in mammalian cells, an interaction that is mediated by the WD40-containing domain of Eed protein.
9742112	Functional activity of the fanconi anemia protein FAA requires FAC binding and nuclear localization.	Fanconi anemia (FA) is an autosomal recessive disease characterized by genomic instability, cancer susceptibility, and cellular hypersensitivity to DNA-cross-linking agents. Eight complementation groups of FA (FA-A through FA-H) have been identified. Two FA genes, corresponding to complementation groups FA-A and FA-C, have been cloned, but the functions of the encoded FAA and FAC proteins remain unknown. We have recently demonstrated that FAA and FAC interact to form a nuclear complex. In this study, we have analyzed a series of mutant forms of the FAA protein with respect to functional activity, FAC binding, and nuclear localization. Mutation or deletion of the amino-terminal nuclear localization signal (NLS) of FAA results in loss of functional activity, loss of FAC binding, and cytoplasmic retention of FAA. Replacement of the NLS sequence with a heterologous NLS sequence, derived from the simian virus 40 T antigen, results in nuclear localization but does not rescue functional activity or FAC binding. Nuclear localization of the FAA protein is therefore necessary but not sufficient for FAA function. Mutant forms of FAA which fail to bind to FAC also fail to promote the nuclear accumulation of FAC. In addition, wild-type FAC promotes the accumulation of wild-type FAA in the nucleus. Our results suggest that FAA and FAC perform a concerted function in the cell nucleus, required for the maintenance of chromosomal stability.
9748234	Direct binding of p130(Cas) to the guanine nucleotide exchange factor C3G.	p130(Cas) (Cas; crk-associated substrate) belongs to a new family of docking molecules. It contains one Src homology (SH) 3 domain in its amino-terminal region followed by a region containing binding motifs for SH2 and SH3 domains. To gain further insight into Cas signaling we used the SH3 domain of Cas in a two-hybrid screen to search a human placenta library for binding partners. The screen confirmed a previous finding of its binding to the focal adhesion kinase (FAK) but also identified C3G, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor. We found direct interaction between Cas and C3G in vitro and in vivo. A series of analysis with C3G deletion mutants revealed a proline-rich Cas-binding site (Ala0-Pro1-Pro2-Lys3-Pro4-Pro5-Leu6-Pro7) located NH2-terminal to the previously characterized Crk binding motifs in C3G. Mutagenesis studies showed that Pro1, Lys3, and Pro4 within the ligand-binding site are critical for high affinity interaction. These results, combined with sequence alignments of proline-rich binding elements from proteins known for Cas binding, define the consensus sequence XXPXKPX which is recognized by the CasSH3 domain. Cas shows structural characteristics of a docking molecule and may serve to bring C3G to specific compartments within the cell.
9751050	Structural basis for inhibition of the cyclin-dependent kinase Cdk6 by the tumour suppressor p16INK4a.	The cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (Cdk4/6) that control the G1 phase of the cell cycle and their inhibitor, the p16INK4a tumour suppressor, have a central role in cell proliferation and in tumorigenesis. The structures of Cdk6 bound to p16INK4a and to the related p19INK4d reveal that the INK4 inhibitors bind next to the ATP-binding site of the catalytic cleft, opposite where the activating cyclin subunit binds. They prevent cyclin binding indirectly by causing structural changes that propagate to the cyclin-binding site. The INK4 inhibitors also distort the kinase catalytic cleft and interfere with ATP binding, which explains how they can inhibit the preassembled Cdk4/6-cyclin D complexes as well. Tumour-derived mutations in INK4a and Cdk4 map to interface contacts, solidifying the role of CDK binding and inhibition in the tumour suppressor activity of p16INK4a.
9751051	Crystal structure of the complex of the cyclin D-dependent kinase Cdk6 bound to the cell-cycle inhibitor p19INK4d.	The crystal structure of the cyclin D-dependent kinase Cdk6 bound to the p19 INK4d protein has been determined at 1.9 A resolution. The results provide the first structural information for a cyclin D-dependent protein kinase and show how the INK4 family of CDK inhibitors bind. The structure indicates that the conformational changes induced by p19INK4d inhibit both productive binding of ATP and the cyclin-induced rearrangement of the kinase from an inactive to an active conformation. The structure also shows how binding of an INK4 inhibitor would prevent binding of p27Kip1, resulting in its redistribution to other CDKs. Identification of the critical residues involved in the interaction explains how mutations in Cdk4 and p16INK4a result in loss of kinase inhibition and cancer.
9751716	[3Fe-4S] to [4Fe-4S] cluster conversion in Desulfovibrio fructosovorans [NiFe] hydrogenase by site-directed mutagenesis.	The role of the high potential [3Fe-4S]1+,0 cluster of [NiFe] hydrogenase from Desulfovibrio species located halfway between the proximal and distal low potential [4Fe-4S]2+,1+ clusters has been investigated by using site-directed mutagenesis. Proline 238 of Desulfovibrio fructosovorans [NiFe] hydrogenase, which occupies the position of a potential ligand of the lacking fourth Fe-site of the [3Fe-4S] cluster, was replaced by a cysteine residue. The properties of the mutant enzyme were investigated in terms of enzymatic activity, EPR, and redox properties of the iron-sulfur centers and crystallographic structure. We have shown on the basis of both spectroscopic and x-ray crystallographic studies that the [3Fe-4S] cluster of D. fructosovorans hydrogenase was converted into a [4Fe-4S] center in the P238 mutant. The [3Fe-4S] to [4Fe-4S] cluster conversion resulted in a lowering of approximately 300 mV of the midpoint potential of the modified cluster, whereas no significant alteration of the spectroscopic and redox properties of the two native [4Fe-4S] clusters and the NiFe center occurred. The significant decrease of the midpoint potential of the intermediate Fe-S cluster had only a slight effect on the catalytic activity of the P238C mutant as compared with the wild-type enzyme. The implications of the results for the role of the high-potential [3Fe-4S] cluster in the intramolecular electron transfer pathway are discussed.
9753324	A tripartite protein complex with the potential to couple synaptic vesicle exocytosis to cell adhesion in brain.	We identify a complex of three proteins in brain that has the potential to couple synaptic vesicle exocytosis to neuronal cell adhesion. The three proteins are: (1) CASK, a protein related to MAGUKs (membrane-associated guanylate kinases); (2) Mint1, a putative vesicular trafficking protein; and (3) Veli1, -2, and -3, vertebrate homologs of C. elegans LIN-7. CASK, Mint1, and Velis form a tight, salt-resistant complex that can be readily isolated. CASK, Mint1, and Velis contain PDZ domains in addition to other modules. However, no PDZ domains are involved in complex formation, leaving them free to recruit cell adhesion molecules, receptors, and channels to the complex. We propose that the tripartite complex acts as a nucleation site for the assembly of proteins involved in synaptic vesicle exocytosis and synaptic junctions.
9753456	Physical and functional interactions between the transactivation domain of the hematopoietic transcription factor NF-E2 and WW domains.	Tandem binding sites for the hematopoietic transcription factor NF-E2 in the beta-globin locus control region activate high-level beta-globin gene expression in transgenic mice. NF-E2 is a heterodimer consisting of a hematopoietic subunit p45 and a ubiquitous subunit p18. Gavva et al. [Gavva, N. R., Gavva, R., Ermekova, K., Sudol, M., and Shen, J. C. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 24105-24108] reported that human p45 contains a PPXY motif that binds WW domains. We show that murine NF-E2, which contains two PPXY motifs (PPXY-1 and -2) within its transactivation domain, differentially interacted with nine GST-WW domain fusion proteins. Quantitative analysis revealed high-affinity binding (KD = 5.7 nM) of p45 to a WW domain from a novel human ubiquitin ligase homologue (WWP1) expressed in hematopoietic tissues. The amino-terminal WW domain of WWP1 formed a multimeric complex with DNA-bound NF-E2. A WWP1 ligand peptide, isolated by phage display, and a peptide spanning PPXY-1 inhibited p45 binding, whereas an SH3 domain-interacting peptide and a peptide spanning PPXY-2 did not. Mutation of PPXY-1, but not PPXY-2, inhibited the transactivation function of NF-E2, providing support for the hypothesis that WW domain interactions are important for NF-E2-mediated transactivation.
9755158	Functional dissection of Arabidopsis COP1 reveals specific roles of its three structural modules in light control of seedling development.	Arabidopsis COP1 acts as a repressor of photomorphogenesis in darkness, and light stimuli abrogate the repressive ability and nuclear abundance of COP1. COP1 has three known structural modules: an N-terminal RING-finger, followed by a predicted coiled-coil and C-terminal WD-40 repeats. A systematic study was undertaken to dissect the functional roles of these three COP1 domains in light control of Arabidopsis seedling development. Our data suggest that COP1 acts primarily as a homodimer, and probably dimerizes through the coiled-coil domain. The RING-finger and the coiled-coil domains can function independently as light-responsive modules mediating the light-controlled nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of COP1. The C-terminal WD-40 domain functions as an autonomous repressor module since the overexpression of COP1 mutant proteins with intact WD-40 repeats are able to suppress photomorphogenic development. This WD-40 domain-mediated repression can be at least in part accounted for by COP1's direct interaction with and negative regulation of HY5, a bZIP transcription factor that positively regulates photomorphogenesis. However, COP1 self-association is a prerequisite for the observed interaction of the COP1 WD-40 repeats with HY5. This work thus provides a structural basis of COP1 as a molecular switch.
9756848	The RNA-splicing factor PSF/p54 controls DNA-topoisomerase I activity by a direct interaction.	DNA-topoisomerase I has been implied in RNA splicing because it catalyzes RNA strand transfer and activates serine/arginine-rich RNA-splicing factors by phosphorylation. Here, we demonstrate a direct interaction between topoisomerase I and pyrimidine tract binding protein-associated splicing factor (PSF), a cofactor of RNA splicing, which forms heterodimers with its smaller homolog, the nuclear RNA-binding protein of 54 kDa (p54). Topoisomerase I, PSF, and p54 copurified in a 1:1:1 ratio from human A431 cell nuclear extracts. Specific binding of topoisomerase I to PSF (but not p54) was demonstrated by coimmunoprecipitation and by far Western blotting, in which renatured blots were probed with biotinylated topoisomerase I. Chemical cross-linking of pure topoisomerase I revealed monomeric, dimeric, and trimeric enzyme forms, whereas in the presence of PSF/p54 the enzyme was cross-linked into complexes larger than homotrimers. When topoisomerase I was complexed with PSF/p54 it was 16-fold more active than the pure enzyme, which could be stimulated 5- and 16-fold by the addition of recombinant PSF or native PSF/p54, respectively. A physiological role of this stimulatory mechanism seems feasible, because topoisomerase I and PSF showed a patched colocalization in A431 cell nuclei, which varied with cell cycle.
9757110	Recognition of RNase Sa by the inhibitor barstar: structure of the complex at 1.7 A resolution.	We report the 1.7 A resolution structure of RNase Sa complexed with the polypeptide inhibitor barstar. The crystals are in the hexagonal space group P65 with unit-cell dimensions a = b = 56.9, c = 135.8 A and the asymmetric unit contains one molecule of the complex. RNase Sa is an extracellular microbial ribonuclease produced by Streptomyces aureofaciens. Barstar is the natural inhibitor of barnase, the ribonuclease of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens. It inhibits RNase Sa and barnase in a similar manner by steric blocking of the active site. The structure of RNase Sa is very similar to that observed in crystals of the native enzyme and its complexes with nucleotides. Barstar retains the structure found in its complex with barnase. The accessible surface area of protein buried in the complex is about 300 A2 smaller and there are fewer hydrogen bonds in the enzyme-inhibitor interface in RNase Sa-barstar than in barnase-barstar, providing an explanation of the reduced binding affinity in the former. Previous studies of barstar complexes have used mutants of the inhibitor and this is the first structure which includes wild-type barstar.
9760170	The crystal structure of anionic salmon trypsin in complex with bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor.	The complex formed between anionic salmon trypsin (ST) and bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI) has been crystallised, and the X-ray structure has been solved using the molecular replacement method. The crystals are hexagonal and belong to space group P6(1)22 with lattice parameters of a = b = 83.12 A and c = 222.15 A. Data have been collected to 2.1 A and the structure has been refined to a crystallographic R-factor of 20.6%. Catalysis by salmon trypsin is distinguished by a Km value 20-fold lower than that for mammalian trypsins, and a k(cat) twice as high. The present ST-BPTI complex serves as a model for the Michaelis-Menten complex, and has been compared with corresponding bovine and rat trypsin (RT) complexes. The binding of BPTI to salmon trypsin is characterised by stronger primary interactions in the active site, and a somewhat looser secondary binding.
9765272	Calmodulin-dependent regulation of inducible and neuronal nitric-oxide synthase.	Neuronal and endothelial nitric-oxide synthases depend upon Ca2+/calmodulin for activation, whereas the activity of the inducible nitric-oxide synthase is Ca2+-independent, presumably due to tightly bound calmodulin. To study these different mechanisms, a series of chimeras derived from neuronal and inducible nitric- oxide synthases were analyzed. Chimeras containing only the oxygenase domain, calmodulin-binding region, or reductase domain of inducible nitric-oxide synthase did not confer significant Ca2+-independent activity. However, each chimera was more sensitive to Ca2+ than the neuronal isoform. The calmodulin-binding region of inducible nitric-oxide synthase with either its oxygenase or reductase domains resulted in significant, but not total, Ca2+-independent activity. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments showed no calmodulin associated with the former chimera in the absence of Ca2+. Trifluoperazine also inhibited this chimera in the absence of Ca2+. The combined interactions of calmodulin bound to inducible nitric-oxide synthase calmodulin-binding region with the oxygenase domain may be weaker than with the reductase domain. Thus, Ca2+-independent activity of inducible nitric-oxide synthase appears to result from the concerted interactions of calmodulin with both the oxygenase and reductase domains in addition to the canonical calmodulin-binding region. The neuronal isoform is not regulated by a unique autoinhibitory element in its reductase domain.
9765275	The human WD repeat protein WAIT-1 specifically interacts with the cytoplasmic tails of beta7-integrins.	Integrins of the beta7 subfamily, alpha4 beta7 and alphaE beta7, contribute to lymphocyte homing and to the development of protective or autoreactive immune responses at mucosal sites. The beta subunits of integrins are considered important for regulation of stimulated cell adhesion and adhesion-dependent signal transduction. Using a yeast interaction trap screen, a human WD repeat protein, termed WAIT-1, was isolated that interacts with the integrin beta7 cytoplasmic tail and is homologous to mouse EED and Drosophila ESC proteins. WAIT-1 also binds to the cytoplasmic domains of alpha4 and alphaE but not to those of integrin beta1, beta2, and alphaL subunits. Association of WAIT-1 and beta7-integrin was confirmed by coprecipitation from transiently transfected 293 cells. The binding site for WAIT-1 was mapped to a short membrane-proximal region of the beta7 cytoplasmic tail with Tyr-735 being of critical importance. Northern blot analysis revealed multiple WAIT-1-related transcripts with differential expression in circulating leukocytes, tissue-resident cells of diverse origin, and lymphoid malignancies. These results suggest that WAIT-1, together with the recently identified RACK1, may define a novel subfamily of WD repeat proteins that interact with distinct subsets of integrin cytoplasmic tails and may act as specific regulators of integrin function.
9768359	Nuclear export of the stress-activated protein kinase p38 mediated by its substrate MAPKAP kinase-2.	BACKGROUND: Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases (or extracellular signal regulated kinases; Erks) and stress-activated protein (SAP) kinases mediate cellular responses to a wide variety of signals. In the Erk MAP kinase pathway, activation of MAP kinases takes place in the cytoplasm and the activated enzyme moves to the nucleus. This translocation to the nucleus is essential to MAP kinase signalling because it enables the kinase to phosphorylate transcription factors. Whether components of the pathway mediated by the SAP kinase p38 change their cellular location on activation is not clear; we have therefore studied the cellular localisation of components of this pathway before and after stimulation. RESULTS: The p38 SAP kinase substrate MAP-kinase-activated protein kinase-2 (MAPKAP kinase-2) contains a putative nuclear localisation signal which we show is functional and required for activation by a variety of stimuli. Following phosphorylation of MAPKAP kinase-2, nuclear p38 was exported to the cytoplasm in a complex with MAPKAP kinase-2. Export of MAPKAP kinase-2 required phosphorylation by p38 but did not appear to require the kinase activity of MAPKAP kinase-2. The p38 activators MKK3 and MKK6 were present in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm, consistent with a role in activating p38 in the nucleus. CONCLUSIONS: In the p38 SAP kinase pathway, MAPKAP kinase-2 serves both as an effector of p38 by phosphorylating substrates and as a determinant of cellular localisation of p38. Nuclear export of p38 and MAPKAP kinase-2 may permit them to phosphorylate substrates in the cytoplasm.
9768757	The structure of HLA-DM, the peptide exchange catalyst that loads antigen onto class II MHC molecules during antigen presentation.	The three-dimensional structure of the soluble ecto-domain of HLA-DM has been determined to 2.5 A resolution by X-ray crystallography. HLA-DM has both peptide exchange activity and acts as a chaperone to peptide-free class II MHC molecules. As predicted, the structure is similar to that of classical class II MHC molecules except that the peptide-binding site is altered to an almost fully closed groove. An unusual cavity is found at the center of the region that binds peptides in class II MHC molecules, and a tryptophanrich lateral surface is identified that is a candidate both for binding to HLA-DR, to effect catalysis, and to HLA-DO, an inhibitor.
9768844	Novel anchorage of GluR2/3 to the postsynaptic density by the AMPA receptor-binding protein ABP.	We report the cloning of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor-binding protein (ABP), a postsynaptic density (PSD) protein related to glutamate receptor-interacting protein (GRIP) with two sets of three PDZ domains, which binds the GluR2/3 AMPA receptor subunits. ABP exhibits widespread CNS expression and is found at the postsynaptic membrane. We show that the protein interactions of the ABP/GRIP family differ from the PSD-95 family, which binds N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. ABP binds to the GluR2/3 C-terminal VKI-COOH motif via class II hydrophobic PDZ interactions, distinct from the class I PSD-95-NMDA receptor interaction. ABP and GRIP also form homo- and heteromultimers through PDZ-PDZ interactions but do not bind PSD-95. We suggest that the ABP/GRIP and PSD-95 families form distinct scaffolds that anchor, respectively, AMPA and NMDA receptors.
9770488	GIPC, a PDZ domain containing protein, interacts specifically with the C terminus of RGS-GAIP.	We have identified a mammalian protein called GIPC (for GAIP interacting protein, C terminus), which has a central PDZ domain and a C-terminal acyl carrier protein (ACP) domain. The PDZ domain of GIPC specifically interacts with RGS-GAIP, a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for Galphai subunits recently localized on clathrin-coated vesicles. Analysis of deletion mutants indicated that the PDZ domain of GIPC specifically interacts with the C terminus of GAIP (11 amino acids) in the yeast two-hybrid system and glutathione S-transferase (GST)-GIPC pull-down assays, but GIPC does not interact with other members of the RGS (regulators of G protein signaling) family tested. This finding is in keeping with the fact that the C terminus of GAIP is unique and possesses a modified C-terminal PDZ-binding motif (SEA). By immunoblotting of membrane fractions prepared from HeLa cells, we found that there are two pools of GIPC-a soluble or cytosolic pool (70%) and a membrane-associated pool (30%). By immunofluorescence, endogenous and GFP-tagged GIPC show both a diffuse and punctate cytoplasmic distribution in HeLa cells reflecting, respectively, the existence of soluble and membrane-associated pools. By immunoelectron microscopy the membrane pool of GIPC is associated with clusters of vesicles located near the plasma membrane. These data provide direct evidence that the C terminus of a RGS protein is involved in interactions specific for a given RGS protein and implicates GAIP in regulation of additional functions besides its GAP activity. The location of GIPC together with its binding to GAIP suggest that GAIP and GIPC may be components of a G protein-coupled signaling complex involved in the regulation of vesicular trafficking. The presence of an ACP domain suggests a putative function for GIPC in the acylation of vesicle-bound proteins.
9774382	Oncoprotein TLS interacts with serine-arginine proteins involved in RNA splicing.	The gene encoding the human TLS protein, also termed FUS, is located at the site of chromosomal translocations in human leukemias and sarcomas where it forms a chimeric fusion gene with one of several different genes. To identify interacting partners of TLS, we screened a yeast two-hybrid cDNA library constructed from mouse hematopoietic cells using the C-terminal region of TLS in the bait plasmid. Two cDNAs encoding members of the serine-arginine (SR) family of proteins were isolated. The first SR protein is the mouse homolog of human splicing factor SC35, and the second SR member is a novel 183-amino acid protein that we term TASR (TLS-associated serine-arginine protein). cDNA cloning of human TASR indicated that mouse and human TASR have identical amino acid sequences. The interactions between TLS and these two SR proteins were confirmed by co-transfection and immunoprecipitation studies. In vivo splicing assays indicated that SC35 and TASR influence splice site selection of adenovirus E1A pre-mRNA. TLS may recruit SR splicing factors to specific target genes through interaction with its C-terminal region, and chromosomal translocations that truncate the C-terminal region of TLS may prevent this interaction. Thus TLS translocations may alter RNA processing and play a role in malignant transformation.
9774676	Interactions of human hMSH2 with hMSH3 and hMSH2 with hMSH6: examination of mutations found in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer.	Mutations in the human mismatch repair protein hMSH2 have been found to cosegregate with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC). Previous biochemical and physical studies have shown that hMSH2 forms specific mispair binding complexes with hMSH3 and hMSH6. We have further characterized these protein interactions by mapping the contact regions within the hMSH2-hMSH3 and the hMSH2-hMSH6 heterodimers. We demonstrate that there are at least two distinct interaction regions of hMSH2 with hMSH3 and hMSH2 with hMSH6. Interestingly, the interaction regions of hMSH2 with either hMSH3 or hMSH6 are identical and there is a coordinated linear orientation of these regions. We examined several missense alterations of hMSH2 found in HNPCC kindreds that are contained within the consensus interaction regions. None of these missense mutations displayed a defect in protein-protein interaction. These data support the notion that these HNPCC-associated mutations may affect some other function of the heterodimeric complexes than simply the static interaction of hMSH2 with hMSH3 or hMSH2 with hMSH6.
9774970	Stable interaction between the products of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 tumor suppressor genes in mitotic and meiotic cells.	BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for most cases of familial, early onset breast and/or ovarian cancer and encode products that each interact with hRAD51. Results presented here show that BRCA1 and BRCA2 coexist in a biochemical complex and colocalize in subnuclear foci in somatic cells and on the axial elements of developing synaptonemal complexes. Like BRCA1 and RAD51, BRCA2 relocates to PCNA+ replication sites following exposure of S phase cells to hydroxyurea or UV irradiation. Thus, BRCA1 and BRCA2 participate, together, in a pathway(s) associated with the activation of double-strand break repair and/or homologous recombination. Dysfunction of this pathway may be a general phenomenon in the majority of cases of hereditary breast and/or ovarian cancer.
9788433	Modulation of endoplasmic reticulum calcium pump by Bcl-2.	Members of the bcl-2 gene family encode proteins that function either to promote or to inhibit apoptosis. Despite numerous efforts, the mechanism of action of Bcl-2, an anti-apoptotic protein, is still not clear. In particular, the relation between Bcl-2 and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium store is not well-understood. In the present work, we examined the effect of Bcl-2 on the ER store. We demonstrate that overexpression of Bcl-2 in breast epithelial cells modulates ER store by upregulating calcium pump (SERCA) expression without affecting the release channel (IP3R). The steady state levels of SERCA2 mRNA and protein were both increased in Bcl-2 expression clones. The increase in SERCA2 protein leads to accelerated calcium uptake and enhanced Ca2+ loading. In addition, we also show the detection of intracellular interaction between Bcl-2 and SERCA molecules by co-immunoprecipitation. Since high lumenal Ca2+ concentration of ER is essential for normal cell functions, the results suggest that Bcl-2 preserves the ER Ca2+ store by upregulating SERCA gene expression as well as by a possible interaction with the pump.
9788437	BRCA1 binds c-Myc and inhibits its transcriptional and transforming activity in cells.	c-Myc, a proto-oncogene that is implicated in tumorigenesis, embryonic development and apoptosis, can physically associate with BRCA1. We have found that BRCA1 interacts with c-Myc in yeast, in in vitro assays and in mammalian cells. Endogenous interactions between BRCA1 and c-Myc were also observed. Efficient BRCA1-Myc association requires the intact helix-loop-helix region of c-Myc, a motif involved in Myc-Max dimerization. BRCA1 does not however bind to Max. Our studies revealed that BRCA1 represses Myc-mediated transcription while having no effect on some other transcriptional activities. Furthermore, BRCA1 reverses the phenotype of embryonic fibroblasts transformed by the activation of Myc and Ras, but only minimally affects the transformed phenotype induced by SV40 virus. These data indicate that BRCA1 may function as a tumor suppressor by regulating the behavior of c-Myc and provide a molecular explanation for some of the effects of the BRCA1 gene product.
9792841	The vaccinia virus E3L gene product interacts with both the regulatory and the substrate binding regions of PKR: implications for PKR autoregulation.	The vaccinia virus E3L gene product, pE3, is a dsRNA binding protein that prevents activation of the interferon-induced, dsRNA-activated protein kinase, PKR. Activation of PKR, which results in phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor, eIF2alpha, leads to the inhibition of protein synthesis, a process involved in defense against virus infection. The E3L gene product has a conserved dsRNA binding domain (DRBD) in its carboxyl-terminal region and has been shown to function in vitro by sequestration of dsRNA. We have utilized in vitro binding assays and the yeast two-hybrid system to demonstrate direct interactions of pE3 with PKR. By these methods, we demonstrate that pE3 interacts with two distinct regions in PKR, the amino-terminal (amino acids 1-99) located in the regulatory domain and the carboxyl-terminal (amino acids 367-523) located in the catalytic domain. The amino-terminal region of PKR that interacts with pE3 contains a conserved DRBD, suggesting that PKR can form nonfunctional heterodimers with pE3, analogous to those seen with other dsRNA binding proteins. Interaction of pE3 with the amino-terminal region of PKR is enhanced by dsRNA. In contrast, dsRNA reduces the interaction of pE3 with the carboxyl-terminal region of PKR. Competition experiments demonstrate that the carboxyl-terminal region of PKR, to which pE3 binds, overlaps the region with which eIF2alpha and the pseudosubstrate pK3 interact, suggesting that pE3 may also prevent PKR activation by masking the substrate binding domain. Like pE3, the amino-terminal region of PKR also interacts with the carboxyl-terminal domain of PKR. These interactions increase our understanding of the mechanisms by which pE3 downregulates PKR. In addition, the PKR-PKR interactions observed leads us to suggest a novel autoregulatory mechanism for activation of PKR in which dsRNA binding to the DRBD(s) induces a conformational change that results in release of the amino terminal region from the substrate binding domain, allowing access to eIF2alpha and its subsequent phosphorylation.
9794763	Binding of hepatitis C virus to CD81.	Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection occurs in about 3 percent of the world's population and is a major cause of liver disease. HCV infection is also associated with cryoglobulinemia, a B lymphocyte proliferative disorder. Virus tropism is controversial, and the mechanisms of cell entry remain unknown. The HCV envelope protein E2 binds human CD81, a tetraspanin expressed on various cell types including hepatocytes and B lymphocytes. Binding of E2 was mapped to the major extracellular loop of CD81. Recombinant molecules containing this loop bound HCV and antibodies that neutralize HCV infection in vivo inhibited virus binding to CD81 in vitro.
9799632	An evolutionary link between sporulation and prophage induction in the structure of a repressor:anti-repressor complex.	Spore formation is an extreme response of some bacteria to adversity. In Bacillus subtilis the proteins of the sin, sporulation inhibition, region form a component of an elaborate molecular circuitry that regulates the commitment to sporulation. SinR is a tetrameric repressor protein that binds to the promoters of genes essential for entry into sporulation and prevents their transcription. This repression is overcome through the activity of SinI, which disrupts the SinR tetramer through the formation of a SinI-SinR heterodimer. The interactions governing this curious quaternary transition are revealed in the crystal structure of the SinI-SinR complex. The most striking, and unexpected, finding is that the tertiary structure of the DNA-binding domain of SinR is identical with that of the corresponding domains of the repressor proteins, CI and Cro, of bacteriophage 434 that regulate lysis/lysogeny. This structural similarity greatly exceeds that between SinR and any bacterial protein or between the 434 repressor proteins and their homologues in the closely related bacteriophage lambda. The close evolutionary relationship implied by the structures of SinR and the 434 repressors provokes both comparison of their functions and a speculative consideration of the intriguing possibility of an evolutionary link between the two adaptive responses, sporulation and prophage induction.
9808624	JNKK1 organizes a MAP kinase module through specific and sequential interactions with upstream and downstream components mediated by its amino-terminal extension.	MAP kinase (MAPK) cascades are composed of a MAPK, MAPK kinase (MAPKK), and a MAPKK kinase (MAPKKK). Despite the existence of numerous components and ample opportunities for crosstalk, most MAPKs are specifically and distinctly activated. We investigated the basis for specific activation of the JNK subgroup of MAPKs. The specificity of JNK activation is determined by the MAPKK JNKK1, which interacts with the MAPKKK MEKK1 and JNK through its amino-terminal extension. Inactive JNKK1 mutants can disrupt JNK activation by MEKK1 or tumor necrosis factor (TNF) in intact cells only if they contain an intact amino-terminal extension. Mutations in this region interfere with the ability of JNKK1 to respond to TNF but do not affect its activation by physical stressors. As JNK and MEKK1 compete for binding to JNKK1 and activation of JNKK1 prevents its binding to MEKK1, activation of this module is likely to occur through sequential MEKK1:JNKK1 and JNKK1:JNK interactions. These results underscore a role for the amino-terminal extension of MAPKKs in determination of response specificity.
9808772	Binding of dynein light chain (PIN) to neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the absence of inhibition.	PIN, an 89-amino-acid polypeptide found in a rat hippocampal cDNA library using the yeast two-hybrid system and various neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) fragments as bait, was reported to be an inhibitor of nNOS (Science 274, 774-778, 1996). PIN reportedly inhibited nNOS selectively and did not interact with either the endothelial or inducible nitric oxide synthase isoforms. Inhibition was attributed to the ability of PIN to dissociate the catalytically active nNOS homodimer. PIN is a dynein light chain (J. Biol. Chem. 271, 19358-19366, 1996), which suggested that PIN may serve as an axonal transport protein for nNOS. We have synthesized a rat PIN cDNA by recursive polymerase chain reaction and have expressed the protein in Escherichia coli. Recombinant PIN is a folded dimeric, mostly alpha-helical protein with a single deeply buried tryptophan residue. We have also expressed and purified the nNOS fragment to which PIN reportedly binds (residues 163-245). This recombinant peptide has a disordered secondary structure. Gel-filtration experiments show that PIN binds to both the full-length nNOS and nNOS fragment. However, PIN neither inhibits nNOS activity nor dissociates the nNOS dimer into monomeric species. PIN thus possibly functions as a dynein light chain involved in nNOS axonal transport but is not an inhibitor of the enzyme. Our results agree with the proposal (Cell 82, 743-752, 1995) that the PIN recognition sequence in nNOS both lies outside the catalytic core and is not part of the monomer-monomer contact region.
9809062	p300/MDM2 complexes participate in MDM2-mediated p53 degradation.	Control of p53 turnover is critical to p53 function. E1A binding to p300/CBP translates into enhanced p53 stability, implying that these coactivator proteins normally operate in p53 turnover control. In this regard, the p300 C/H1 region serves as a specific in vivo binding site for both p53 and MDM2, a naturally occurring p53 destabilizer. Moreover, most of the endogenous MDM2 is bound to p300, and genetic analysis implies that specific interactions of p53 and MDM2 with p300 C/H1 are important steps in the MDM2-directed turnover of p53. A specific role for p300 in endogenous p53 degradation is underscored by the p53-stabilizing effect of overproducing the p300 C/H1 domain. Taken together, the data indicate that specific interactions between p300/CBP C/H1, p53, and MDM2 are intimately involved in the MDM2-mediated control of p53 abundance.
9811458	Characterization of a carboxy-terminal BRCA1 interacting protein.	There are several lines of evidence indicating that the carboxy-terminal region of the tumor suppressor protein BRCA1 is a functionally significant domain. Using the yeast two-hybrid and in vitro biochemical assays, we show that a protein, CtIP, interacts specifically with the carboxy-terminal segment of human BRCA1 from residues 1602-1863. A germ line truncation mutation, Y1853ter, that removes the last 11 amino acids from the carboxy-terminus of BRCA1, abolishes not only its transcriptional activation function, but also binding to CtIP. The function of CtIP is unknown, but its reported association with a transcriptional repressor CtBP lends further support that it may have a role in transcription. A sequence based screen of a panel of 89 tumor cell line cDNAs for mutations in the CtIP coding region identified five missense variants. In the pancreatic carcinoma cell line, BxPC3, the non-conservative lysine to glutamic acid change at codon 337 is accompanied with apparent loss of heterozygosity or non-expression of the wild type allele. Thus it is plausible that CtIP may itself be a tumor suppressor acting in the same pathway as BRCA1.
9811611	A dileucine motif in HIV-1 Nef is essential for sorting into clathrin-coated pits and for downregulation of CD4.	Nef, a approximately 200 residue multifunctional regulatory protein of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), interacts with components of host cell signal transduction and clathrin-dependent protein sorting pathways. The downregulation of surface CD4 molecules and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I antigens by Nef is believed to be important in AIDS pathogenesis [1-7]. Nef contains a globular core domain and two disordered segments--a myristylated arm at the amino terminus and a carboxy-terminal loop projecting from the globular core [8,9]. Here, we aimed to determine the sorting signals in HIV-1 Nef that were responsible for its involvement in the clathrin-mediated pathway. We found that a sequence in the carboxy-terminal disordered loop of Nef is essential for downregulation of CD4. This sequence resembles the dileucine motif, one of two well-characterized sorting signals that target membrane proteins to clathrin-coated vesicles. The dileucine-motif-containing segment of Nef bound directly and specifically to the beta-adaptin subunit of the clathrin adaptor complexes AP-1 and AP-2, which are responsible for recruiting sorted proteins into coated pits. Unlike wild-type Nef, a mutant form of Nef that lacked the dileucine motif did not localize to clathrin-coated pits and did not downregulate CD4 expression, although it could downregulate MHC class I surface expression. Thus, the dileucine motif in HIV-1 is required for CD4 downregulation and for interaction with clathrin adaptor complexes.
9812983	Interaction of Kar2p and Sls1p is required for efficient co-translational translocation of secreted proteins in the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica.	The yeast Yarrowia lipolytica is a model organism for in vivo study of the signal recognition particle-dependent targeting pathway. In this report, we defined solubilization conditions and set up a fractionation procedure of Y. lipolytica microsomes to determine the amounts of Sec61p-containing translocation pores linked to ribosomes. In contrast to Saccharomyces cerevisiae, from 70 to 80% of Sec61p associates with ribosomes in this yeast. The chaperone protein Kar2p and the Sls1p product, a resident protein of the endoplasmic reticulum lumen, partially fractionate with this Sec61p population. Moreover, Sls1p can be co-immunoprecipitated with Kar2p, and the two polypeptides are shown to directly interact in the yeast two-hybrid system. A site-directed mutagenesis was performed on the SLS1 coding sequence that allowed us to define a functional domain in Sls1p. Indeed, co-translational translocation of a reporter protein is affected when one of these mutant proteins is expressed. Moreover, this protein has lost its capacity to interact with Kar2p, and the two lumenal polypeptides might thus cooperate to promote secretory protein co-translational translocation.
9813005	IRS pleckstrin homology domains bind to acidic motifs in proteins.	Using a yeast two-hybrid system, we identified several proteins that interact with the PH domains in IRS-1 and IRS-2, including Lon protease, myeloblast protein, and nucleolin. Although the roles of these molecules in insulin action are not yet known, each protein contained an acidic motif that interacted with the PH domain of IRS-2. However, only the acidic motif in nucleolin bound to IRS-1, suggesting that the PH domain in IRS-1 and IRS-2 are not identical. Moreover, synthetic peptides based on the acidic motif in Lon protease and myeloblast protein inhibited the binding of nucleolin to the PH domain of IRS-2 but not to the PH domain of IRS-1, confirming the selectivity of these PH domains. The ability to bind acidic motifs may be a specific function of the PH domain in IRS proteins, because the PH domains in betaARK, phospholipase Cgamma, or spectrin did not bind nucleolin. In 32D cells, nucleolin bound to both IRS-1 and IRS-2, and expression of the acidic motif of nucleolin inhibited insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1 and IRS-2. These results suggest that the binding of acidic motifs to the PH domain of IRS-1 and IRS-2 disrupts coupling to the activated insulin receptor. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that the PH domain in the IRS proteins may ordinarily bind acidic peptide motifs in membrane proteins or other acidic membrane elements that couple IRS proteins to activated membrane receptors.
9819421	CNS1 encodes an essential p60/Sti1 homolog in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that suppresses cyclophilin 40 mutations and interacts with Hsp90.	Cyclophilins are cis-trans-peptidyl-prolyl isomerases that bind to and are inhibited by the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A (CsA). The toxic effects of CsA are mediated by the 18-kDa cyclophilin A protein. A larger cyclophilin of 40 kDa, cyclophilin 40, is a component of Hsp90-steroid receptor complexes and contains two domains, an amino-terminal prolyl isomerase domain and a carboxy-terminal tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain. There are two cyclophilin 40 homologs in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, encoded by the CPR6 and CPR7 genes. Yeast strains lacking the Cpr7 enzyme are viable but exhibit a slow-growth phenotype. In addition, we show here that cpr7 mutant strains are hypersensitive to the Hsp90 inhibitor geldanamycin. When overexpressed, the TPR domain of Cpr7 alone complements both cpr7 mutant phenotypes, while overexpression of the cyclophilin domain of Cpr7, full-length Cpr6, or human cyclophilin 40 does not. The open reading frame YBR155w, which has moderate identity to the yeast p60 homolog STI1, was isolated as a high-copy-number suppressor of the cpr7 slow-growth phenotype. We show that this Sti1 homolog Cns1 (cyclophilin seven suppressor) is constitutively expressed, essential, and found in protein complexes with both yeast Hsp90 and Cpr7 but not with Cpr6. Cyclosporin A inhibited Cpr7 interactions with Cns1 but not with Hsp90. In summary, our findings identify a novel component of the Hsp90 chaperone complex that shares function with cyclophilin 40 and provide evidence that there are functional differences between two conserved sets of Hsp90 binding proteins in yeast.
9819422	Cns1 is an essential protein associated with the hsp90 chaperone complex in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that can restore cyclophilin 40-dependent functions in cpr7Delta cells.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae harbors two cyclophilin 40-type enzymes, Cpr6 and Cpr7, which are components of the Hsp90 molecular chaperone machinery. Cpr7 is required for normal growth and is required for maximal activity of heterologous Hsp90-dependent substrates, including glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the oncogenic tyrosine kinase pp60(v-src). In addition, it has recently been shown that Cpr7 plays a major role in negative regulation of the S. cerevisiae heat shock transcription factor (HSF). To better understand functions associated with Cpr7, a search was undertaken for multicopy suppressors of the cpr7Delta slow-growth phenotype. The screen identified a single gene, designated CNS1 (for cyclophilin seven suppressor), capable of suppressing the cpr7Delta growth defect. Overexpression of CNS1 in cpr7Delta cells also largely restored GR activity and negative regulation of HSF. In vitro protein retention experiments in which Hsp90 heterocomplexes were precipitated resulted in coprecipitation of Cns1. Interaction between Cns1 and the carboxy terminus of Hsp90 was also shown by two-hybrid analysis. The functional consequences of CNS1 overexpression and its physical association with the Hsp90 machinery indicate that Cns1 is a previously unidentified component of molecular chaperone complexes. Thus far, Cns1 is the only tetratricopeptide repeat-containing component of Hsp90 heterocomplexes found to be essential for cell viability under all conditions tested.
9819425	Pbp1p, a factor interacting with Saccharomyces cerevisiae poly(A)-binding protein, regulates polyadenylation.	The poly(A) tail of an mRNA is believed to influence the initiation of translation, and the rate at which the poly(A) tail is removed is thought to determine how fast an mRNA is degraded. One key factor associated with this 3'-end structure is the poly(A)-binding protein (Pab1p) encoded by the PAB1 gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In an effort to learn more about the functional role of this protein, we used a two-hybrid screen to determine the factor(s) with which it interacts. We identified five genes encoding factors that specifically interact with the carboxy terminus of Pab1p. Of a total of 44 specific clones identified, PBP1 (for Pab1p-binding protein) was isolated 38 times. Of the putative interacting genes examined, PBP1 promoted the highest level of resistance to 3-aminotriazole (>100 mM) in constructs in which HIS3 was used as a reporter. We determined that a fraction of Pbp1p cosediments with polysomes in sucrose gradients and that its distribution is very similar to that of Pab1p. Disruption of PBP1 showed that it is not essential for viability but can suppress the lethality associated with a PAB1 deletion. The suppression of pab1Delta by pbp1Delta appears to be different from that mediated by other pab1 suppressors, since disruption of PBP1 does not alter translation rates, affect accumulation of ribosomal subunits, change mRNA poly(A) tail lengths, or result in a defect in mRNA decay. Rather, Pbp1p appears to function in the nucleus to promote proper polyadenylation. In the absence of Pbp1p, 3' termini of pre-mRNAs are properly cleaved but lack full-length poly(A) tails. These effects suggest that Pbp1p may act to repress the ability of Pab1p to negatively regulate polyadenylation.
9819434	Raf-1 physically interacts with Rb and regulates its function: a link between mitogenic signaling and cell cycle regulation.	Cells initiate proliferation in response to growth factor stimulation, but the biochemical mechanisms linking signals received at the cell surface receptors to the cell cycle regulatory molecules are not yet clear. In this study, we show that the signaling molecule Raf-1 can physically interact with Rb and p130 proteins in vitro and in vivo and that this interaction can be detected in mammalian cells without overexpressing any component. The binding of Raf-1 to Rb occurs subsequent to mitogen stimulation, and this interaction can be detected only in proliferating cells. Raf-1 can inactivate Rb function and can reverse Rb-mediated repression of E2F1 transcription and cell proliferation efficiently. The region of Raf-1 involved in Rb binding spanned residues 1 to 28 at the N terminus, and functional inactivation of Rb required a direct interaction. Serum stimulation of quiescent human fibroblast HSF8 cells led to a partial translocation of Raf-1 into the nucleus, where it colocalized with Rb. Further, Raf-1 was able to phosphorylate Rb in vitro quite efficiently. We believe that the physical interaction of Raf-1 with Rb is a vital step in the growth factor-mediated induction of cell proliferation and that Raf-1 acts as a direct link between cell surface signaling cascades and the cell cycle machinery.
9820826	Human carbon catabolite repressor protein (CCR4)-associative factor 1: cloning, expression and characterization of its interaction with the B-cell translocation protein BTG1.	The human BTG1 protein is thought to be a potential tumour suppressor because its overexpression inhibits NIH 3T3 cell proliferation. However, little is known about how BTG1 exerts its anti-proliferative activity. In this study, we used the yeast 'two-hybrid' system to screen for interacting protein partners and identified human carbon catabolite repressor protein (CCR4)-associative factor 1 (hCAF-1), a homologue of mouse CAF-1 (mCAF-1) and Saccharomyces cerevisiae yCAF-1/POP2. In vitro the hCAF-1/BTG1 complex formation was dependent on the phosphorylation of a putative p34cdc2 kinase site on BTG1 (Ser-159). In yeast, the Ala-159 mutant did not interact with hCAF-1. In addition, phosphorylation of Ser-159 in vitro showed specificity for the cell cycle kinases p34CDK2/cyclin E and p34CDK2/cyclin A, but not for p34CDK4/cyclin D1 or p34cdc2/cyclin B. Cell synchrony experiments with primary cultures of rat aortic smooth-muscle cells (RSMCs) demonstrated that message and protein levels of rat CAF-1 (rCAF-1) were up-regulated under conditions of cell contact, as previously reported for BTG1 [Wilcox, Scott, Subramanian, Ross, Adams-Burton, Stoltenborg and Corjay (1995) Circulation 92, I34-I35]. Western blot and immunohistochemical analysis showed that rCAF-1 localizes to the nucleus of contact-inhibited RSMCs, where it was physically associated with BTG1, as determined by co-immunoprecipitation with anti-hCAF-1 antisera. Overexpression of hCAF-1 in NIH 3T3 and osteosarcoma (U-2-OS) cells was itself anti-proliferative with colony formation reduced by 67% and 90% respectively. Taken together, these results indicate that formation of the hCAF-1/BTG1 complex is driven by phosphorylation at BTG1 (Ser-159) and implicates this complex in the signalling events of cell division that lead to changes in cellular proliferation associated with cell-cell contact.
9822678	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae TCM62 gene encodes a chaperone necessary for the assembly of the mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase (complex II).	The assembly of the mitochondrial respiratory chain is mediated by a large number of helper proteins. To better understand the biogenesis of the yeast succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), we searched for assembly-defective mutants. SDH is encoded by the SDH1, SDH2, SDH3, and SDH4 genes. The holoenzyme is composed of two domains. The membrane extrinsic domain, consisting of Sdh1p and Sdh2p, contains a covalent FAD cofactor and three iron-sulfur clusters. The membrane intrinsic domain, consisting of Sdh3p and Sdh4p, is proposed to bind two molecules of ubiquinone and one heme. We isolated one mutant that is respiration-deficient with a specific loss of SDH oxidase activity. SDH is not assembled in this mutant. The complementing gene, TCM62 (also known as SCYBR044C), does not encode an SDH subunit and is not essential for cell viability. It encodes a mitochondrial membrane protein of 64,211 Da. The Tcm62p sequence is 17.3% identical to yeast hsp60, a molecular chaperone. The Tcm62p amino terminus is in the mitochondrial matrix, whereas the carboxyl terminus is accessible from the intermembrane space. Tcm62p forms a complex containing at least three SDH subunits. We propose that Tcm62p functions as a chaperone in the assembly of yeast SDH.
9826510	Crystal structure at 1.95 A resolution of the breast tumour-specific antibody SM3 complexed with its peptide epitope reveals novel hypervariable loop recognition.	The anti-breast tumour antibody SM3 has a high selectivity in reacting specifically with carcinoma-associated mucin. SM3 recognises the core repeating motif (Pro-Asp-Thr-Arg-Pro) of aberrantly glycosylated epithelial mucin MUC1, and has potential as a therapeutic and diagnostic tool. Here we report the crystal structure of the Fab fragment of SM3 in complex with a 13-residue MUC1 peptide antigen (Thr1P-Ser2P-Ala3P-Pro4P-Asp5P-Thr6P -Arg7P-Pro8P-Ala9P-Pro10P-Gly11P- Ser12P-Thr13P). The SM3-MUC1 peptide structure was solved by molecular replacement, and the current model is refined at 1.95 A resolution with an R-factor of 21.3% and R-free 28.3%. The MUC1 peptide is bound both by non-polar interactions and hydrogen bonds in an elongated groove in the antibody-combining site through interactions with Complimentarity Determining Regions (CDRs), three of the light chain (L1, L2, L3) and two of the heavy chain (H1 and H3). The conformation of the peptide is mainly extended with no discernable standard secondary structure. There is a single non-proline cis-peptide bond in H3 (Val95H-Gly96H-Gln97H-Phe98H-Ala101H-Ty r102H) between Gly96H and Gln97H, which appears to play a role in SM3-peptide antigen interactions, and represents the first such example within an antibody hypervariable loop. The SM3-MUC1 peptide structure has implications for rational therapeutic and diagnostic antibody engineering.
9827804	A family of stress-inducible GADD45-like proteins mediate activation of the stress-responsive MTK1/MEKK4 MAPKKK.	The stress-responsive p38 and JNK MAPK pathways regulate cell cycle and apoptosis. A human MAPKKK, MTK1 (= MEKK4), mediates activation of both p38 and JNK in response to environmental stresses. Using a yeast two-hybrid method, three related proteins, GADD45alpha (= GADD45), GADD45, (= MyD118), and GADD45gamma, were identified that bound to an N-terminal domain of MTK1. These proteins activated MTK1 kinase activity, both in vivo and in vitro. The GADD45-like genes are induced by environmental stresses, including MMS, UV, and gamma irradiation. Expression of the GADD45-like genes induces p38/JNK activation and apoptosis, which can be partially suppressed by coexpression of a dominant inhibitory MTK1 mutant protein. We propose that the GADD45-like proteins mediate activation of the p38/JNK pathway, via MTK1/ MEKK4, in response to environmental stresses.
9829701	Intersubunit hydrogen bond acts as a global molecular switch in Escherichia coli aspartate transcarbamoylase.	Tyr 165 in the catalytic subunit of Escherichia coli aspartate transcarbamoylase (ATCase, EC 2.1.3.2) forms an intersubunit hydrogen bond in the T state with Glu 239 in the 240s loop of a second catalytic subunit, which is broken in the T to R transition. Substitution of Tyr 165 by Phe lowers substrate affinity by approximately an order of magnitude and alters the pH profile for enzyme function. We have determined the crystal structure of Y165F at 2.4 A resolution by molecular replacement, using a wild-type T state structure as the probe, and refined it to an R value of 25.2%. The Y165F mutation induces a global conformational change that is in the opposite direction to the T to R transition and therefore results in an extreme T state. The two catalytic trimers move closer by approximately 0.14 A and rotate by approximately 0.2 degrees , in the opposite direction to the T-->R rotation; the two domains of each catalytic chain rotate by approximately 2.1 degrees, also in the opposite direction to the T-->R transition; and the 240s loop adopts a new conformation. Residues 229 to 236 shift by approximately 2.4 A so that the active site is more open. Residues 237 to 244 rotate by approximately 24.1 degrees, altering interactions within the 240s loop and at the C1-C4 and C1-R4 interfaces. Arg 167, a key residue in domain closure and interactions with L-Asp, swings out from the active site to interact with Tyr 197. This crystal structure is consistent with the functional properties of Y165F, expands our knowledge of the conformational repertoire of ATCase, and indicates that the canonical T state does not represent an extreme.
9829980	Diva, a Bcl-2 homologue that binds directly to Apaf-1 and induces BH3-independent cell death.	We have identified and characterized Diva, which is a novel regulator of apoptosis. Sequence analysis revealed that Diva is a member of the Bcl-2 family of proteins containing Bcl-2 homology domain 1, 2, 3, and 4 (BH1, BH2, BH3, and BH4) regions and a carboxyl-terminal hydrophobic domain. The expression of Diva mRNA was detected in multiple embryonic tissues but was restricted to the ovary and testis in adult mice. The expression of Diva promoted the death of 293T, Ramsey, and T47D cells as well as that of primary sensory neurons, indicating that Diva is a proapoptotic protein. Significantly, Diva lacks critical residues in the conserved BH3 region that mediate the interaction between BH3-containing proapoptotic Bcl-2 homologues and their prosurvival binding partners. Consistent with this, Diva did not bind to cellular Bcl-2 family members including Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, Bcl-w, Mcl-1, and A1/Bfl-1. Furthermore, mutants of Diva lacking the BH3 region fully retained their proapoptotic activity, confirming that Diva promotes apoptosis in a BH3-independent manner. Significantly, Diva interacted with a viral Bcl-2 homologue (vBcl-2) encoded by the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus. Consistent with these associations, apoptosis induced by Diva was inhibited by vBcl-2 but not by Bcl-XL. Importantly, Diva interacted with Apaf-1, an adapter molecule that activates caspase-9, a central death protease of the apoptotic pathway. The expression of Diva inhibited the binding of Bcl-XL to Apaf-1, as determined by immunoprecipitation assays. Thus, Diva represents a novel type of proapoptotic Bcl-2 homologue that promotes apoptosis independently of the BH3 region through direct binding to Apaf-1, thus preventing Bcl-XL from binding to the caspase-9 regulator Apaf-1.
9832504	The interaction between HIV-1 Tat and human cyclin T1 requires zinc and a critical cysteine residue that is not conserved in the murine CycT1 protein.	HIV-1 Tat activates transcription through binding to human cyclin T1, a regulatory subunit of the TAK/P-TEFb CTD kinase complex. Here we show that the cyclin domain of hCycT1 is necessary and sufficient to interact with Tat and promote cooperative binding to TAR RNA in vitro, as well as mediate Tat transactivation in vivo. A Tat:TAR recognition motif (TRM) was identified at the carboxy-terminal edge of the cyclin domain, and we show that hCycT1 can interact simultaneously with Tat and CDK9 on TAR RNA in vitro. Alanine-scanning mutagenesis of the hCycT1 TRM identified residues that are critical for the interaction with Tat and others that are required specifically for binding of the complex to TAR RNA. Interestingly, we find that the interaction between Tat and hCycT1 requires zinc as well as essential cysteine residues in both proteins. Cloning and characterization of the murine CycT1 protein revealed that it lacks a critical cysteine residue (C261) and forms a weak, zinc-independent complex with HIV-1 Tat that greatly reduces binding to TAR RNA. A point mutation in mCycT1 (Y261C) restores high-affinity, zinc-dependent binding to Tat and TAR in vitro, and rescues Tat transactivation in vivo. Although overexpression of hCycT1 in NIH3T3 cells strongly enhances transcription from an integrated proviral promoter, we find that this fails to overcome all blocks to productive HIV-1 infection in murine cells.
9837926	Protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric-oxide synthase, PIN, binds to a 17-amino acid residue fragment of the enzyme.	Neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) is the primary nitric oxide (NO) regulator in neurons. The activity of the enzyme is inhibited by a protein inhibitor called PIN. We were able to purify large quantities of PIN overexpressed in bacterial cells. Analytical ultracentrifugation and chemical cross-linking studies showed that PIN exists as a monomer at low concentrations. The protein forms a high order aggregate at elevated concentrations. We have shown, using NMR spectroscopy, that the previously identified PIN-binding domain (PINB) of nNOS (residues 161-245) adopts a random coil structure in solution. By titrating 15N-labeled PINB with unlabeled PIN, the PIN-binding region of nNOS was precisely mapped to a 17-residue peptide fragment from Met-228 to His-244 of nNOS. NMR titration experiments also showed that PIN binds to nNOS with a 1:2 stoichiometry. A synthetic peptide corresponding to the identified PIN-binding region of nNOS was used to study the interaction between PIN and nNOS in detail. The functional implications of the results obtained from this study are discussed.
9837928	WD-40 repeat region regulates Apaf-1 self-association and procaspase-9 activation.	The casp9 protein plays a critical role in apoptosis induced by a variety of death stimuli. A regulator of apoptosis, Apaf-1, binds to and activates pro-casp9 in the presence of cytochrome c and dATP, a requirement that is bypassed by deletion of the WD-40 repeats located in the C-terminal half of Apaf-1. In this report, we used constitutively active Apaf-1 mutant lacking the WD-40 repeat region to study the mechanism and regulation of pro-casp9 activation. Mutational analysis revealed that only a small portion of the CED-4 homologous region (residues 456-559) could be deleted without destroying the ability of Apaf-1-(1-559) to activate pro-casp9. Apaf-1 can self-associate to form oligomers. Disruption of Apaf-1 self-association by deletion (Delta109-559) or mutation of the P-loop region (K149R) abrogated Apaf-1-mediated pro-casp9 activation. Forced oligomerization of the caspase recruitment domain of Apaf-1 was sufficient for pro-casp9 activation. Dimerization of chimeric Fpk-pro-casp9 protein with the dimerizer drug FK1012 induced pro-casp9 processing and apoptosis in cells. Significantly, the C-terminal region containing WD-40 repeats interacted with its N-terminal CED-4 homologous region, as determined by immunoprecipitation experiments. Importantly, expression of the WD-40 repeat region inhibited Apaf-1 self-association and proteolytic activation of pro-casp9. These studies provide a mechanism by which Apaf-1 promotes autoactivation of pro-casp9 through Apaf-1 self-association, a process that is negatively regulated by the WD-40 repeats.
9837937	Interaction of cytosolic adaptor proteins with neuronal apolipoprotein E receptors and the amyloid precursor protein.	Apolipoprotein E, alpha2-macroglobulin, and amyloid precursor protein (APP) are involved in the development of Alzheimer's disease. All three proteins are ligands for the low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor-related protein (LRP), an abundant neuronal surface receptor that has also been genetically linked to Alzheimer's disease. The cytoplasmic tails of LRP and other members of the LDL receptor gene family contain NPxY motifs that are required for receptor endocytosis. To investigate whether these receptors may have functions that go beyond ligand internalization, e.g. possible roles in cellular signaling, we searched for proteins that might interact with the cytoplasmic tails of the receptors. A family of adaptor proteins containing protein interaction domains that can interact with NPxY motifs has previously been described. Using yeast 2-hybrid and protein coprecipitation approaches in vitro, we show that the neuronal adaptor proteins FE65 and mammalian Disabled bind to the cytoplasmic tails of LRP, LDL receptor, and APP, where they can potentially serve as molecular scaffolds for the assembly of cytosolic multiprotein complexes. FE65 contains two distinct protein interaction domains that interact with LRP and APP, respectively, raising the possibility that LRP can modulate the intracellular trafficking of APP. Tyrosine-phosphorylated mammalian Disabled can recruit nonreceptor tyrosine kinases, such as src and abl, to the cytoplasmic tails of the receptors to which it binds, suggesting a molecular pathway by which receptor/ligand interaction on the cell surface could generate an intracellular signal.
9843683	Interaction of yeast Rvs167 and Pho85 cyclin-dependent kinase complexes may link the cell cycle to the actin cytoskeleton.	Background:. PHO85 encodes the catalytic subunit of a cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) in budding yeast and functions in phosphate and glycogen metabolism. Pho85 associated with the G1 cyclins Pcl1 and Pcl2 is also required for cell cycle progression in the absence of the Cdc28 cyclins Cln1 and Cln2. Loss of Pcl1, Pcl2 and related Pho85 cyclins results in budding defects, suggesting that Pcl-Pho85 complexes function in cell morphogenesis early in the cell cycle; their precise role is not clear, however. Results:. To identify targets for Pcl-Pho85 kinases, we performed yeast two-hybrid interaction screens using Pcl2 and the related cyclin Pcl9. We identified RVS167, a gene involved in endocytosis, organization of the actin cytoskeleton, and cell survival after starvation. Like rvs167Delta mutants, pho85 mutants or strains deleted for the Pcl1,2-type Pho85 cyclins showed abnormal cell morphology on starvation, sensitivity to salt, random budding in diploids, and defects in endocytosis and in the actin cytoskeleton. Overexpression of Rvs167 in wild-type cells caused morphological abnormalities and growth arrest at high temperatures; these phenotypes were exacerbated by deleting PHO85. Rvs167 has a Src homology 3 (SH3) domain and five potential Pho85 phosphorylation sites; recombinant Rvs167 was phosphorylated by the Pcl2-Pho85 kinase in vitro. Maximal phosphorylation of Rvs167 in vivo required Pho85 and the Pcl1,2-type cyclins. Conclusions:. Rvs167 interacts with Pho85 cyclins and is implicated as a target of Pho85 kinases in vivo. Our results identify a connection between Cdks and the actin cytoskeleton; interaction of Rvs167 and Pcl-Pho85 Cdks might contribute to actin cytoskeleton regulation in response to stresses such as starvation.
9843949	Bax interacts with the permeability transition pore to induce permeability transition and cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria.	Cytochrome c release and the mitochondrial permeability transition (PT), including loss of the transmembrane potential (Deltapsi), play an important role in apoptosis. Using isolated mitochondria, we found that recombinant Bax and Bak, proapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family, induced mitochondrial Deltapsi loss, swelling, and cytochrome c release. All of these changes were dependent on Ca2+ and were prevented by cyclosporin A (CsA) and bongkrekic acid, both of which close the PT pores (megachannels), indicating that Bax- and Bak-induced mitochondrial changes were mediated through the opening of these pores. Bax-induced mitochondrial changes were inhibited by recombinant Bcl-xL and transgene-derived Bcl-2, antiapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family, as well as by oligomycin, suggesting a possible regulatory effect of F0F1-ATPase on Bax-induced mitochondrial changes. Proapoptotic Bax- and Bak-BH3 (Bcl-2 homology) peptides, but not a mutant BH3 peptide nor a mutant Bak lacking BH3, induced the mitochondrial changes, indicating an essential role of the BH3 region. A coimmunoprecipitation study revealed that Bax and Bak interacted with the voltage-dependent anion channel, which is a component of PT pores. Taken together, these findings suggest that proapoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins, including Bax and Bak, induce the mitochondrial PT and cytochrome c release by interacting with the PT pores.
9843967	Pontin52, an interaction partner of beta-catenin, binds to the TATA box binding protein.	beta-catenin, the vertebrate homolog of the Drosophila Armadillo protein, has been shown to have dual cellular functions, as a component of both the cadherin-catenin cell adhesion complex and the Wnt signaling pathway. At Wnt signaling, beta-catenin becomes stabilized in the cytoplasm and subsequently available for interaction with transcription factors of the lymphocyte enhancer factor-1/T-cell factor family, resulting in a nuclear localization of beta-catenin. Although beta-catenin does not bind DNA directly, its carboxyl- and amino-terminal regions exhibit a transactivating activity still not well understood molecularly. Here we report the identification of an interaction partner of beta-catenin, a nuclear protein designated Pontin52. Pontin52 binds beta-catenin in the region of Armadillo repeats 2-5 and, more importantly, also binds the TATA box binding protein. We provide evidence for an in vivo multiprotein complex composed of Pontin52, beta-catenin, and lymphocyte enhancer factor-1/T-cell factor. Our results suggest involvement of Pontin52 in the nuclear function of beta-catenin.
9843987	Identification of a proline-binding motif regulating CD2-triggered T lymphocyte activation.	An intracellular protein termed CD2 binding protein 2 (CD2BP2), which binds to a site containing two PPPGHR segments within the cytoplasmic region of CD2, was identified. Mutagenesis and NMR analysis demonstrated that the CD2 binding region of CD2BP2 includes a 17-aa motif (GPY[orF]xxxxM[orV]xxWxxx GYF), also found in several yeast and Caenorhabditis elegans proteins of unknown function. In Jurkat T cells, over-expression of the isolated CD2BP2 domain binding to CD2 enhances the production of interleukin 2 on crosslinking of CD2 but not the T cell receptor. Hence, a proline-binding module distinct from SH3 and WW domains regulates protein-protein interactions.
9847347	The ability of herpes simplex virus type 1 immediate-early protein Vmw110 to bind to a ubiquitin-specific protease contributes to its roles in the activation of gene expression and stimulation of virus replication.	Herpes simplex virus type 1 immediate-early protein Vmw110 stimulates the onset of virus infection and is required for efficient reactivation from latency. In transfection assays, Vmw110 is a potent activator of gene expression, but its mode of action has yet to be determined. Previous work has shown that Vmw110 localizes to specific intranuclear structures known as ND10, PML bodies, or PODs and causes the disruption of these domains. The ability of Vmw110 to disrupt ND10 correlates with its biological activities in infected and transfected cells. It has also been found that Vmw110 binds strongly and specifically to a ubiquitin-specific protease known as HAUSP, itself a component of a subset of ND10. In this study we have investigated the role of HAUSP in Vmw110 activity; single amino acid residues of Vmw110 required for the interaction were identified, and the effects of mutation of these residues in infected and transfected cells were then assayed. The results indicate that the ability to bind to HAUSP contributes to the functional activities of Vmw110.
9856458	Identification and characterization of novel substrates of Trk receptors in developing neurons.	Neurotrophins influence growth and survival of specific populations of neurons through activation of Trks, members of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family. In this report, we describe the identification and characterization of two substrates of Trk kinases, rAPS and SH2-B, which are closely related Src homolog 2 (SH2) domain-containing signaling molecules. rAPS and SH2-B are substrates of TrkB and TrkC in cortical neurons and SH2-B is a substrate of TrkA in sympathetic neurons. Moreover, rAPS and SH2-B bind to Grb2, and both are sufficient to mediate NGF induction of Ras, MAP kinase (MAPK), and morphological differentiation of PC12 cells. Lastly, antibody perturbation and transient transfection experiments indicate that SH2-B, or a closely related molecule, is necessary for NGF-dependent signaling in neonatal sympathetic neurons. Together, these observations indicate that rAPS and SH2-B mediate Trk signaling in developing neurons.
9856463	Neuropilin-2 is a receptor for semaphorin IV: insight into the structural basis of receptor function and specificity.	Neuropilins bind secreted members of the semaphorin family of proteins. Neuropilin-1 is a receptor for Sema III. Here, we show that neuropilin-2 is a receptor for the secreted semaphorin Sema IV and acts selectively to mediate repulsive guidance events in discrete populations of neurons. neuropilin-2 and semaIV are expressed in strikingly complementary patterns during neurodevelopment. The extracellular complement-binding (CUB) and coagulation factor domains of neuropilin-2 confer specificity to the Sema IV repulsive response, and these domains of neuropilin-1 are necessary and sufficient for binding of the Sema III semaphorin (sema) domain. The coagulation factor domains alone are necessary and sufficient for binding of the Sema III immunoglobulin- (Ig-) basic domain and the unrelated ligand, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Lastly, neuropilin-1 can homomultimerize and form heteromultimers with neuropilin-2. These results provide insight into how interactions between neuropilins and secreted semaphorins function to coordinate repulsive axon guidance during neurodevelopment.
9857189	A cdc15-like adaptor protein (CD2BP1) interacts with the CD2 cytoplasmic domain and regulates CD2-triggered adhesion.	A human CD2 cytoplasmic tail-binding protein, termed CD2BP1, was identified by an interaction trap cloning method. Expression of CD2BP1 is restricted to hematopoietic tissue, being prominent in T and natural killer (NK) cells, with long (CD2BP1L) and short (CD2BP1S) variants arising by alternative RNA splicing. Both CD2BP1 molecules are homologous to Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc15, and include a helical domain, variable length intervening PEST sequence and C-terminal SH3 domain. Although the CD2BP1 SH3 domain binds directly to the CD2 sequence, KGPPLPRPRV (amino acids 300-309), its association is augmented markedly by the CD2BP1 N-terminal segment. Upon ligand-induced clustering of surface CD2 molecules, CD2BP1 redistributes from a cytosolic to a surface membrane compartment, co-localizing with CD2. In turn, CD2-stimulated adhesion is downregulated by CD2BP1, apparently through coupling of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)-PEST to CD2. These findings offer the first molecular view into the control processes for T cell adhesion.
9857202	A newly identified N-terminal amino acid sequence of human eIF4G binds poly(A)-binding protein and functions in poly(A)-dependent translation.	Most eukaryotic mRNAs possess a 5' cap and a 3' poly(A) tail, both of which are required for efficient translation. In yeast and plants, binding of eIF4G to poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) was implicated in poly(A)-dependent translation. In mammals, however, there has been no evidence that eIF4G binds PABP. Using 5' rapid amplification of cDNA, we have extended the known human eIF4GI open reading frame from the N-terminus by 156 amino acids. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments showed that the extended eIF4GI binds PABP, while the N-terminally truncated original eIF4GI cannot. Deletion analysis identified a 29 amino acid sequence in the new N-terminal region as the PABP-binding site. The 29 amino acid stretch is almost identical in eIF4GI and eIF4GII, and the full-length eIF4GII also binds PABP. As previously shown for yeast, human eIF4G binds to a fragment composed of RRM1 and RRM2 of PABP. In an in vitro translation system, an N-terminal fragment which includes the PABP-binding site inhibits poly(A)-dependent translation, but has no effect on translation of a deadenylated mRNA. These results indicate that, in addition to a recently identified mammalian PABP-binding protein, PAIP-1, eIF4G binds PABP and probably functions in poly(A)-dependent translation in mammalian cells.
9858596	The E6 oncoproteins of high-risk papillomaviruses bind to a novel putative GAP protein, E6TP1, and target it for degradation.	The high-risk human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are associated with carcinomas of the cervix and other genital tumors. Previous studies have identified two viral oncoproteins, E6 and E7, which are expressed in the majority of HPV-associated carcinomas. The ability of high-risk HPV E6 protein to immortalize human mammary epithelial cells (MECs) has provided a single-gene model to study the mechanisms of E6-induced oncogenic transformation. In this system, the E6 protein targets the p53 tumor suppressor protein for degradation, and mutational analyses have shown that E6-induced degradation of p53 protein is required for MEC immortalization. However, the inability of most dominant-negative p53 mutants to induce efficient immortalization of MECs suggests the existence of additional targets of the HPV E6 oncoprotein. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have isolated a novel E6-binding protein. This polypeptide, designated E6TP1 (E6-targeted protein 1), exhibits high homology to GTPase-activating proteins for Rap, including SPA-1, tuberin, and Rap1GAP. The mRNA for E6TP1 is widely expressed in tissues and in vitro-cultured cell lines. The gene for E6TP1 localizes to chromosome 14q23.2-14q24.3 within a locus that has been shown to undergo loss of heterozygosity in malignant meningiomas. Importantly, E6TP1 is targeted for degradation by the high-risk but not the low-risk HPV E6 proteins both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, the immortalization-competent but not the immortalization-incompetent HPV16 E6 mutants target the E6TP1 protein for degradation. Our results identify a novel target for the E6 oncoprotein and provide a potential link between HPV E6 oncogenesis and alteration of a small G protein signaling pathway.
9867435	Structure of an enantiomeric protein, D-monellin at 1.8 A resolution.	The D-enantiomer of a potently sweet protein, monellin, has been crystallized and analyzed by X-ray crystallography at 1.8 A resolut ion. Two crystal forms (I and II) appeared under crystallization conditions similar, but not identical, to the crystallization conditions of natural L-monellin. There are four molecules per asymmetric unit in crystal form I and one in crystal form II. Crystal form I is not reproducible and is equivalent to that of monoclinic L-monellin. Intermonomer contacts in crystal form II are very different from those found in natural L-monellin crystals. The backbone trace of D-monellin resembles very closely the mirror image of that of L-monellin, but the N- and C-terminus backbones as well as several side-chain conformations of D-monellin are different from those of natural L-monellin. Most of these apparent differences may be attributable to the crystal packing differences.
9867838	Caveolin interacts with Trk A and p75(NTR) and regulates neurotrophin signaling pathways.	Neurotrophins signal through Trk tyrosine kinase receptors and the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR). We have shown previously that activation of Trk A tyrosine kinase activity can inhibit p75(NTR)-dependent sphingomyelin hydrolysis, that caveolae are a localized site for p75(NTR) signaling, and that caveolin can directly interact with p75(NTR). The ability of caveolin to also interact with tyrosine kinase receptors and inhibit their activity led us to hypothesize that caveolin expression may modulate interactions between neurotrophin signaling pathways. PC12 cells were transfected with caveolin that was expressed efficiently and targeted to the appropriate membrane domains. Upon exposure to nerve growth factor (NGF), caveolin-PC12 cells were unable to develop extensive neuritic processes. Caveolin expression in PC12 cells was found to diminish the magnitude and duration of Trk A activation in vivo. This inhibition may be due to a direct interaction of caveolin with Trk A, because Trk A co-immunoprecipitated with caveolin from Cav-Trk A-PC12 cells, and a glutathione S-transferase-caveolin fusion protein bound to Trk A and inhibited NGF-induced autophosphorylation in vitro. Furthermore, the in vivo kinetics of the inhibition of Trk A tyrosine kinase activity by caveolin expression correlated with an increased ability of NGF to induce sphingomyelin hydrolysis through p75(NTR). In summary, our results suggest that the interaction of caveolin with neurotrophin receptors may have functional consequences in regulating signaling through p75(NTR) and Trk A in neuronal and glial cell populations.
9874241	Cyclophilin-D binds strongly to complexes of the voltage-dependent anion channel and the adenine nucleotide translocase to form the permeability transition pore.	A cyclophilin-D affinity matrix was employed to isolate components of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. A cDNA encoding cyclophilin-D was cloned from a rat liver library and ligated into pGEX to allow expression of a glutathione S-transferase/cyclophilin-D fusion protein in Escherichia coli XL1 cells. The cyclophilin-D in the fusion was functionally normal as judged by its peptidylprolyl cis-trans-isomerase activity and its inhibition by cyclosporin A. The fusion protein was bound to glutathione-agarose to form the cyclophilin-D affinity matrix. The matrix selectively bound 32-kDa proteins of mitochondrial membrane extracts, but no H2O-soluble proteins were bound. The 32-kDa band on SDS/PAGE resolved into a doublet and reacted with antibodies against the voltage-dependent anion channel (porin) and the adenine nucleotide translocase. These two proteins were also selectively retained by the affinity matrix in the presence of cyclosporin A. The thus-purified voltage-dependent anion channel, adenine nucleotide translocase and the fusion protein were incorporated into phosphatidylcholine liposomes containing fluorescein sulphonate. The proteoliposomes were permeabilized by Ca2+ plus phosphate, and this was blocked completely by cyclosporin A. These properties are identical to those of the permeability transition pore in mitochondria. It is concluded that the basic permeability transition pore structure comprises the voltage-dependent anion channel (outer membrane), adenine nucleotide translocase (inner membrane) and cyclophilin-D, and forms at contact sites between the two membranes.
9878060	Boo, a novel negative regulator of cell death, interacts with Apaf-1.	In this report, we describe the cloning and characterization of Boo, a novel anti-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family. The expression of Boo was highly restricted to the ovary and epididymis implicating it in the control of ovarian atresia and sperm maturation. Boo contains the conserved BH1 and BH2 domains, but lacks the BH3 motif. Like Bcl-2, Boo possesses a hydrophobic C-terminus and localizes to intracellular membranes. Boo also has an N-terminal region with strong homology to the BH4 domain found to be important for the function of some anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 homologues. Chromosomal localization analysis assigned Boo to murine chromosome 9 at band d9. Boo inhibits apoptosis, homodimerizes or heterodimerizes with some death-promoting and -suppressing Bcl-2 family members. More importantly, Boo interacts with Apaf-1 and forms a multimeric protein complex with Apaf-1 and caspase-9. Bak and Bik, two pro-apoptotic homologues disrupt the association of Boo and Apaf-1. Furthermore, Boo binds to three distinct regions of Apaf-1. These results demonstrate the evolutionarily conserved nature of the mechanisms of apoptosis. Like Ced-9, the mammalian homologues Boo and Bcl-xL interact with the human counterpart of Ced-4, Apaf-1, and thereby regulate apoptosis.
9878069	Human eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4G (eIF4G) recruits mnk1 to phosphorylate eIF4E.	Human eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) binds to the mRNA cap structure and interacts with eIF4G, which serves as a scaffold protein for the assembly of eIF4E and eIF4A to form the eIF4F complex. eIF4E is an important modulator of cell growth and proliferation. It is the least abundant component of the translation initiation machinery and its activity is modulated by phosphorylation and interaction with eIF4E-binding proteins (4E-BPs). One strong candidate for the eIF4E kinase is the recently cloned MAPK-activated protein kinase, Mnk1, which phosphorylates eIF4E on its physiological site Ser209 in vitro. Here we report that Mnk1 is associated with the eIF4F complex via its interaction with the C-terminal region of eIF4G. Moreover, the phosphorylation of an eIF4E mutant lacking eIF4G-binding capability is severely impaired in cells. We propose a model whereby, in addition to its role in eIF4F assembly, eIF4G provides a docking site for Mnk1 to phosphorylate eIF4E. We also show that Mnk1 interacts with the C-terminal region of the translational inhibitor p97, an eIF4G-related protein that does not bind eIF4E, raising the possibility that p97 can block phosphorylation of eIF4E by sequestering Mnk1.
9880331	GS32, a novel Golgi SNARE of 32 kDa, interacts preferentially with syntaxin 6.	Syntaxin 1, synaptobrevins or vesicle-associated membrane proteins, and the synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) are key molecules involved in the docking and fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic membrane. We report here the molecular, cell biological, and biochemical characterization of a 32-kDa protein homologous to both SNAP-25 (20% amino acid sequence identity) and the recently identified SNAP-23 (19% amino acid sequence identity). Northern blot analysis shows that the mRNA for this protein is widely expressed. Polyclonal antibodies against this protein detect a 32-kDa protein present in both cytosol and membrane fractions. The membrane-bound form of this protein is revealed to be primarily localized to the Golgi apparatus by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy, a finding that is further established by electron microscopy immunogold labeling showing that this protein is present in tubular-vesicular structures of the Golgi apparatus. Biochemical characterizations establish that this protein behaves like a SNAP receptor and is thus named Golgi SNARE of 32 kDa (GS32). GS32 in the Golgi extract is preferentially retained by the immobilized GST-syntaxin 6 fusion protein. The coimmunoprecipitation of syntaxin 6 but not syntaxin 5 or GS28 from the Golgi extract by antibodies against GS32 further sustains the preferential interaction of GS32 with Golgi syntaxin 6.
9880522	Neuronal nitric-oxide synthase is regulated by the Hsp90-based chaperone system in vivo.	It is established that the multiprotein heat shock protein 90 (hsp90)-based chaperone system acts on the ligand binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) to form a GR.hsp90 heterocomplex and to convert the receptor ligand binding domain to the steroid-binding state. Treatment of cells with the hsp90 inhibitor geldanamycin inactivates steroid binding activity and increases the rate of GR turnover. We show here that a portion of neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) exists as a molybdate-stabilized nNOS. hsp90 heterocomplex in the cytosolic fraction of human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably transfected with rat nNOS. Treatment of human embryonic kidney 293 cells with geldanamycin both decreases nNOS catalytic activity and increases the rate of nNOS turnover. Similarly, geldanamycin treatment of nNOS-expressing Sf9 cells partially inhibits nNOS activation by exogenous heme. Like the GR, purified heme-free apo-nNOS is activated by the DE52-retained fraction of rabbit reticulocyte lysate, which also assembles nNOS. hsp90 heterocomplexes. However, in contrast to the GR, heterocomplex assembly with hsp90 is not required for increased heme binding and nNOS activation in this cell-free system. We propose that, in vivo, where access by free heme is limited, the complete hsp90-based chaperone machinery is required for sustained opening of the heme binding cleft and nNOS activation, but in the heme-containing cell-free nNOS-activating system transient opening of the heme binding cleft without hsp90 is sufficient to facilitate heme binding.
9881696	Inhibition of Bak-induced apoptosis by HPV-18 E6.	Human papillomavirus (HPV) E6 proteins inhibit apoptosis in both p53-dependent and p53-independent manners. A key point in apoptosis is the regulation provided by the Bcl-2 family; and in differentiating keratinocytes, in which HPV replicates, the Bak protein is highly expressed. We show that HPV-18 E6 will inhibit Bak-induced apoptosis and this is mediated by an interaction between the E6 and Bak proteins resulting in degradation of the Bak protein in vivo. We also show that Bak protein interacts with the ubiquitin ligase, E6AP, and that a mutant of Bak defective in E6AP binding is overexpressed in comparison with wild type. These studies suggest that Bak is probably the first naturally occurring target of E6AP to be identified.
9882311	Interaction of the transcription factor TFIID with simian virus 40 (SV40) large T antigen interferes with replication of SV40 DNA in vitro.	Simian virus 40 (SV40) large tumor (T) antigen is the major regulatory protein that directs the course of viral infection, primarily by interacting with host cell proteins and modulating their functions. Initiation of viral DNA replication requires specific interactions of T antigen bound to the viral origin of DNA replication with cellular replication proteins. Transcription factors are thought to stimulate initiation of viral DNA replication, but the mechanism of stimulation is poorly understood. Since the transcription factor TATA-binding protein (TBP) binds to sequences within the origin of replication and interacts specifically with T antigen, we examined whether TBP complexes stimulate SV40 DNA replication in vitro. On the contrary, we found that depletion of TBP complexes from human cell extracts increased their ability to support viral DNA replication, and readdition of TBP complexes to the depleted extracts diminished their activity. We have mapped the sites of interaction between the proteins to residues 181 to 205 of T antigen and 184 to 220 of TBP. Titration of fusion proteins containing either of these peptides into undepleted cell extracts stimulated their replication activity, suggesting that they prevented the T antigen-TBP interaction that interfered with replication activity. TBP complexes also interfered with origin DNA unwinding by purified T antigen, and addition of either the T antigen or the TBP fusion peptide relieved the inhibition. These results suggest that TBP complexes associate with a T-antigen surface that is also required for origin DNA unwinding and viral DNA replication. We speculate that competition among cellular proteins for T antigen may play a role in regulating the course of viral infection.
9891077	p73 function is inhibited by tumor-derived p53 mutants in mammalian cells.	The p53 tumor suppressor protein, found mutated in over 50% of all human tumors, is a sequence-specific transcriptional activator. Recent studies have identified a p53 relative, termed p73. We were interested in determining the relative abilities of wild-type and mutant forms of p53 and p73alpha and -beta isoforms to transactivate various p53-responsive promoters. We show that both p73alpha and p73beta activate the transcription of reporters containing a number of p53-responsive promoters in the p53-null cell line H1299. However, a number of significant differences were observed between p53 and p73 and even between p73alpha and p73beta. Additionally, a Saccharomyces cerevisiae-based reporter assay revealed a broad array of transcriptional transactivation abilities by both p73 isoforms at 37 degreesC. Recent data have shown that p73 can associate with p53 by the yeast two-hybrid assay. When we examined complex formation in transfected mammalian cells, we found that p73alpha coprecipitates with mutant but not wild-type p53. Since many tumor-derived p53 mutants are capable of inhibiting transactivation by wild-type p53, we tested the effects of two representative hot-spot mutants (R175H and R248W) on p73. By cotransfecting p73alpha along with either p53 mutant and a p53-responsive reporter, we found that both R175H and R248W reduces the transcriptional activity of p73alpha. This decrease in transcriptional activity is correlated with the reduced ability of p73alpha to promote apoptosis in the presence of tumor-derived p53 mutants. Our data suggest the possibility that in some tumor cells, an outcome of the expression of mutant p53 protein may be to interfere with the endogenous p73 protein.
9892665	Moe1, a conserved protein in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, interacts with a Ras effector, Scd1, to affect proper spindle formation.	In fission yeast, Scd1/Ral1 is a putative guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Cdc42sp and also acts as a Ras1 effector necessary for the regulation of cytoskeleton organization. In this study, we have characterized a protein, Moe1, that binds directly to Scd1. A moe1 null (Delta) mutant exhibits numerous phenotypes indicative of abnormal microtubule functioning, including an abnormality in the spindle. moe1Delta mutants are resistant to microtubule destabilizing agents; moreover, moe1Delta rescued the growth defects of tubulin mutants containing unstable microtubules. These results suggest that Moe1 induces instability in microtubules. Biochemical and subcellular localization studies suggest that Moe1 and Scd1 colocalize in the nucleus. Furthermore, loss of function in Scd1 or Ras1 also induced abnormality in the spindle and is synthetically lethal with moe1Delta producing cells that lack a detectable spindle. These data demonstrate that Moe1 is a component of the Ras1 pathway necessary for proper spindle formation in the nucleus. Human and nematode Moe1 both can substitute for yeast Moe1, indicating that the function of Moe1 in spindle formation has been conserved substantially during evolution.
9892668	Groucho and dCtBP mediate separate pathways of transcriptional repression in the Drosophila embryo.	The precellular Drosophila embryo contains approximately 10 well characterized transcriptional repressors. At least half are short-range repressors that must bind within 100 bp of either upstream activators or the core transcription complex to inhibit (or quench) gene expression. The two long-range repressors can function over distances of 1 kilobase or more to silence transcription. Previous studies have shown that three of the five short-range repressors interact with a common corepressor protein, dCtBP. In contrast, the two long-range repressors, Hairy and Dorsal, recruit a different corepressor protein, Groucho. Hairy also was shown to interact with dCtBP, thereby raising the possibility that Groucho and dCtBP are components of a common corepressor complex. To investigate this issue, we have misexpressed wild-type and mutant forms of Hairy in transgenic embryos. Evidence is presented that Hairy-mediated repression depends on the Groucho interaction sequence (WRPW) but not the weak dCtBP motif (PLSLV) present in the native protein. Conversion of the PLSLV motif into an optimal dCtBP interaction sequence (PLDLS) disrupts the activity of an otherwise normal Hairy protein. These results suggest that dCtBP and Groucho mediate separate pathways of transcriptional repression and that the two proteins can inhibit one another when both bind the same repressor.
9915784	Association of the p75 neurotrophin receptor with TRAF6.	In addition to the Trk tyrosine kinase receptors, neurotrophins also bind to a second receptor, p75, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. Several signaling pathways have been implicated for p75 in the absence of Trk receptors, including induction of NF-kappaB and c-Jun kinase activities and increased production of ceramide. However, to date, the mechanisms by which the p75 receptor initiates intracellular signal transduction have not been defined. Here we report a specific interaction between p75 and TRAF6 (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor-6) after transient transfection in HEK293T cells. The interaction was ligand-dependent and maximal at 100 ng/ml of nerve growth factor (NGF). Other neurotrophins also promoted the association of TRAF6 with p75 but to a lesser extent. The binding of TRAF6 was localized to the juxtamembrane region of p75 by co-immunoprecipitation and Western blotting. To assess the functional significance of this interaction, we have tested responses in cultured Schwann cells that express p75 and TRAF6. An NGF-mediated increase in the nuclear localization of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB could be blocked by the introduction of a dominant negative form of TRAF6 in Schwann cells. These results indicate that TRAF6 can potentially function as a signal transducer for NGF actions through the p75 receptor.
9915826	Identification of an extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) docking site in ribosomal S6 kinase, a sequence critical for activation by ERK in vivo.	Glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fusion proteins containing the carboxyl-terminal tails of three p90 ribosomal S6 kinase (RSK) isozymes (RSK1, RSK2, and RSK3) interacted with extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) but not c-Jun-NH2-kinase (JNK) or p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Within the carboxyl-terminal residues of the RSK isozymes is a region of high conservation corresponding to residues 722LAQRRVRKLPSTTL735 in RSK1. Truncation of the carboxyl-terminal 9 residues, 727VRKLPSTTL735, completely eliminated the interaction of the GST-RSK1 fusion protein with purified recombinant ERK2, whereas the truncation of residues 731PSTTL735 had no effect on the interaction with purified ERK2. ERK1 and ERK2 co-immunoprecipitated with hemagglutinin-tagged wild type RSK2 (HA-RSK2) in BHK cell cytosol. However, ERK did not co-immunoprecipitate with HA-RSK2((1-729)), a mutant missing the carboxyl-terminal 11 amino acids, similar to the minimal truncation that eliminated in vitro interaction of ERK with the GST-RSK1 fusion protein. Kinase activity of HA-RSK2 increased 6-fold in response to insulin. HA-RSK2((1-729)) had a similar basal kinase activity to that of HA-RSK2 but was not affected by insulin treatment. Immunoprecipitated HA-RSK2 and HA-RSK2((1-729)) could be activated to the same extent in vitro by active ERK2, demonstrating that HA-RSK2((1-729)) was properly folded. These data suggest that the conserved region of the RSK isozymes (722LAQRRVRKL730 of RSK1) provides for a specific ERK docking site approximately 150 amino acids carboxyl-terminal to the nearest identified ERK phosphorylation site (Thr573). Complex formation between RSK and ERK is essential for the activation of RSK by ERK in vivo. Comparison of the docking site of RSK with the carboxyl-terminal tails of other MAPK-activated kinases reveals putative docking sites within each of these MAPK-targeted kinases. The number and placement of lysine and arginine residues within the conserved region correlate with specificity for activation by ERK and p38 MAPKs in vivo.
9915858	Direct association with thioredoxin allows redox regulation of glucocorticoid receptor function.	The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is considered to belong to a class of transcription factors, the functions of which are exposed to redox regulation. We have recently demonstrated that thioredoxin (TRX), a cellular reducing catalyst, plays an important role in restoration of GR function in vivo under oxidative conditions. Although both the ligand binding domain and other domains of the GR have been suggested to be modulated by TRX, the molecular mechanism of the interaction is largely unknown. In the present study, we hypothesized that the DNA binding domain (DBD) of the GR, which is highly conserved among the nuclear receptors, is also responsible for communication with TRX in vivo. Mammalian two-hybrid assay and glutathione S-transferase pull-down assay revealed the direct association between TRX and the GR DBD. Moreover, analysis of subcellular localization of TRX and the chimeric protein harboring herpes simplex viral protein 16 transactivation domain and the GR DBD indicated that the interaction might take place in the nucleus under oxidative conditions. Together these observations indicate that TRX, via a direct association with the conserved DBD motif, may represent a key mediator operating in interplay between cellular redox signaling and nuclear receptor-mediated signal transduction.
9920888	Identification of a domain of Axin that binds to the serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A and a self-binding domain.	Axin is a negative regulator of embryonic axis formation in vertebrates, which acts through a Wnt signal transduction pathway involving the serine/threonine kinase GSK-3 and beta-catenin. Axin has been shown to have distinct binding sites for GSK-3 and beta-catenin and to promote the phosphorylation of beta-catenin and its consequent degradation. This provides an explanation for the ability of Axin to inhibit signaling through beta-catenin. In addition, a more N-terminal region of Axin binds to adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), a tumor suppressor protein that also regulates levels of beta-catenin. Here, we report the results of a yeast two-hybrid screen for proteins that interact with the C-terminal third of Axin, a region in which no binding sites for other proteins have previously been identified. We found that Axin can bind to the catalytic subunit of the serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A through a domain between amino acids 632 and 836. This interaction was confirmed by in vitro binding studies as well as by co-immunoprecipitation of epitope-tagged proteins expressed in cultured cells. Our results suggest that protein phosphatase 2A might interact with the Axin.APC.GSK-3.beta-catenin complex, where it could modulate the effect of GSK-3 on beta-catenin or other proteins in the complex. We also identified a region of Axin that may allow it to form dimers or multimers. Through two-hybrid and co-immunoprecipitation studies, we demonstrated that the C-terminal 100 amino acids of Axin could bind to the same region as other Axin molecules.
9920933	The cellular inhibitor of the PKR protein kinase, P58(IPK), is an influenza virus-activated co-chaperone that modulates heat shock protein 70 activity.	P58(IPK), a member of the tetratricopeptide repeat and J-domain protein families, was first recognized for its ability to inhibit the double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase, PKR. PKR is part of the interferon-induced host defense against viral infection, and down-regulates translation initiation via phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 on the alpha-subunit. P58(IPK) is activated in response to infection by influenza virus, and inhibits PKR through direct protein-protein interaction. Previously, we demonstrated that the molecular chaperone heat shock protein 40 (hsp40) was a negative regulator of P58(IPK). We could now report that influenza virus activates the P58(IPK) pathway by promoting the dissociation of hsp40 from P58(IPK) during infection. We also found that the P58(IPK)-hsp40 association was disrupted during recovery from heat shock, which suggested a regulatory role for P58(IPK) in the absence of virus infection. The PKR pathway is even more complex as we show in this report that the molecular chaperone, hsp/Hsc70, was a component of a trimeric complex with hsp40 and P58(IPK). Moreover, like other J-domain proteins, P58(IPK) stimulated the ATPase activity of Hsc70. Taken together, our data suggest that P58(IPK) is a co-chaperone, possibly directing hsp/Hsc70 to refold, and thus inhibit kinase function.
9926939	Cyclin D1 associates with the TBP-associated factor TAF(II)250 to regulate Sp1-mediated transcription.	We have previously shown that Sp1-mediated transcription is stimulated by Rb and repressed by cyclin D1. The stimulation of Sp1 transcriptional activity by Rb is conferred, in part, through a direct interaction with the TBP-associated factor TAF(II)250. Here we investigated the mechanism(s) through which cyclin D1 represses Sp1. We examined the ability of cyclin D1 to regulate transcription mediated by Gal4-Sp1 fusion proteins, which contain the Gal4 DNA-binding domain and Sp1 trans-activation domain(s). The domain of Sp1 sufficient to confer repression by cyclin D1 was mapped to a region important for interaction with TAF(II)110. We further demonstrate that TAF(II)250-cyclin D1 complexes can be immunoprecipitated from mammalian and baculovirus-infected insect cells and that recombinant GST-TAF(II)250 (amino acids 1-434) associates with cyclin D1 in vitro. Moreover, the overexpression of Rb or CDK4 reduced the level of TAF(II)250-cyclin D1 complex. The amino terminus of cyclin D1 (amino acids 1-100) was sufficient for association with TAF(II)250 and for repressing Sp1-mediated transcription. Taken together, the results suggest that cyclin D1 may regulate transcription by interacting directly or indirectly with TAF(II)250.
9926942	The second BRCT domain of BRCA1 proteins interacts with p53 and stimulates transcription from the p21WAF1/CIP1 promoter.	Inherited mutations in the breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene BRCA1 are associated with high risk for developing breast and ovarian cancers. Several studies link BRCA1 to transcriptional regulation, DNA repair, apoptosis and growth/tumor suppression. BRCA1 associates with p53 and stimulates transcription in both p53 dependent and p53-independent manners. BRCA1 splice variants BRCA1a (p110) and BRCA1b (p100) associates with CBP/p300 co-activators. Here we show that BRCA1a and BRCA1b proteins stimulate p53-dependent transcription from the p21WAF1/CIP1 promoter. In addition, the C-terminal second BRCA1 (BRCT) domain is sufficient for p53 mediated transactivation of the p21 promoter. Previous studies emphasized the importance of the BRCT domain, which shows homology with p53 binding protein (53BP1), in transcriptional activation, growth inhibition and tumor suppression. Our findings demonstrate an additional function for this domain in protein-protein interaction and co-activation of p53. We also found that BRCA1a and BRCA1b proteins interact with p53 in vitro and in vivo. The p53 interaction domain of BRCA1a/1b maps, in vitro, to the second BRCT domain (aa 1760-1863). The BRCT domain binds to the central domain of p53 which is required for sequence specific DNA binding. These results demonstrate for the first time the presence of a second p53 interaction domain in BRCA1 proteins and suggests that BRCA1a and BRCA1b proteins, like BRCA1, function as p53 co-activators. This BRCT domain also binds in vitro to CBP. These results suggest that one of the mechanisms by which BRCA1 proteins function is through recruitment of CBP/p300 associated HAT/FAT activity for acetylation of p53 to specific promoters resulting in transcriptional activation.
9926943	Functional association of TGF-beta receptor II with cyclin B.	Utilizing the cytoplasmic tail of Transforming Growth Factor Receptor Type II (TGFbeta RII) as bait in a yeast two hybrid system, we have identified human cyclin B2 as a direct physical partner of TGFbeta RII. Analysis of deletion mutants of glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-cyclin B2 mapped its binding domain for TGFbeta RII to the C-terminal and revealed a negative regulatory region immediately upstream of the cyclin box. Using recombinant proteins, Cdc2 was demonstrated to indirectly interact with TGFbeta RII via cyclin B2. This interaction was reproduced in THP-1 monocytic cells, where TGFbeta treatment markedly enhanced the ability of cyclin B2 and, correspondingly, Cdc2 from TGFbeta-treated THP-1 cells, to bind the GST-TGFbeta RII fusion protein. More importantly, TGFbeta RII co-precipitated with cyclin B2 in TGFbeta-treated THP-1 cells. TGFbeta treatment also caused threonine phosphorylation of Cdc2 in the TGFbeta RII-cyclin B2-Cdc2 complex in THP1 cells, in parallel with down regulation of Cdc2 function as measured by histone H1 kinase activity. Cyclin B1 had the same capacity to bind TGFbeta RII and mediate indirect Cdc2 binding. These results suggest an alternative mechanism that cell cycle arrest in the G1/S phase caused by TGFbeta may, in part, be due to inactivation of cyclin B/Cdc2 kinase, which is needed for entry into the G2/M phase.
9950691	Syndapin I, a synaptic dynamin-binding protein that associates with the neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein.	The GTPase dynamin has been clearly implicated in clathrin-mediated endocytosis of synaptic vesicle membranes at the presynaptic nerve terminal. Here we describe a novel 52-kDa protein in rat brain that binds the proline-rich C terminus of dynamin. Syndapin I (synaptic, dynamin-associated protein I) is highly enriched in brain where it exists in a high molecular weight complex. Syndapin I can be involved in multiple protein-protein interactions via a src homology 3 (SH3) domain at the C terminus and two predicted coiled-coil stretches. Coprecipitation studies and blot overlay analyses revealed that syndapin I binds the brain-specific proteins dynamin I, synaptojanin, and synapsin I via an SH3 domain-specific interaction. Coimmunoprecipitation of dynamin I with antibodies recognizing syndapin I and colocalization of syndapin I with dynamin I at vesicular structures in primary neurons indicate that syndapin I associates with dynamin I in vivo and may play a role in synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Furthermore, syndapin I associates with the neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein, an actin-depolymerizing protein that regulates cytoskeletal rearrangement. These characteristics of syndapin I suggest a molecular link between cytoskeletal dynamics and synaptic vesicle recycling in the nerve terminal.
9971746	delta-catenin, an adhesive junction-associated protein which promotes cell scattering.	The classical adherens junction that holds epithelial cells together consists of a protein complex in which members of the cadherin family linked to various catenins are the principal components. delta-catenin is a mammalian brain protein in the Armadillo repeat superfamily with sequence similarity to the adherens junction protein p120(ctn). We found that delta-catenin can be immunoprecipitated as a complex with other components of the adherens junction, including cadherin and beta-catenin, from transfected cells and brain. The interaction with cadherin involves direct contact within the highly conserved juxtamembrane region of the COOH terminus, where p120(ctn) also binds. In developing mouse brain, staining with delta-catenin antibodies is prominent towards the apical boundary of the neuroepithelial cells in the ventricular zone. When transfected into Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) epithelial cells delta-catenin colocalized with cadherin, p120(ctn), and beta-catenin. The Arm domain alone was sufficient for achieving localization and coimmunoprecipitation with cadherin. The ectopic expression of delta-catenin in MDCK cells altered their morphology, induced the elaboration of lamellipodia, interfered with monolayer formation, and increased scattering in response to hepatocyte growth factor treatment. We propose that delta-catenin can regulate adhesion molecules to implement the organization of large cellular arrays necessary for tissue morphogenesis.
9973222	Activation of neurotrophin-3 receptor TrkC induces apoptosis in medulloblastomas.	Elevated expression of the neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) receptor TrkC by childhood medulloblastomas is associated with favorable clinical outcome. Here, we provide evidence that TrkC is more than simply a passive marker of prognosis. We demonstrate that: (a) medulloblastomas undergo apoptosis in vitro when grown in the presence of NT-3; (b) overexpression of TrkC inhibits the growth of intracerebral xenografts of a medulloblastoma cell line in nude mice; and (c) trkC expression by individual tumor cells is highly correlated with apoptosis within primary medulloblastoma biopsy specimens. TrkC-mediated NT-3 signaling promotes apoptosis by activating multiple parallel signaling pathways and by inducing immediate-early gene expression of both c-jun and c-fos. Considered collectively, these results support the conclusion that the biological actions of TrkC activation affect medulloblastoma outcome by inhibiting tumor growth through the promotion of apoptosis.
9973324	Identification of 'tissue' transglutaminase binding proteins in neural cells committed to apoptosis.	Overexpression of 'tissue' transglutaminase (tTG) in the human neuroblastoma cells increases spontaneous apoptosis and renders these cells highly susceptible to death induced by various stimuli. We used immunoprecipitation to identify cellular proteins that interact specifically with tTG in SK-N-BE(2) -derived stable transfectants. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis showed that tTG binding proteins have molecular masses of 110, 50, 22, 14, and 12 kDa. Microsequencing and computer search analyses allowed us to identify these polypeptides as the beta-tubulin (50 kDa), the histone H2B (14 kDa), and two GST P1-1-truncated forms (22 and 12 kDa). The specificity of the interaction between tTG and these proteins was confirmed by competing tTG binding with purified enzyme and by detecting tTG in immunoprecipitates obtained using beta-tubulin or GST P1-1 mAb's. Here we demonstrate that the GST P1-1 acts as an efficient acyl donor as well as acceptor tTG substrate both in cells and in vitro. The tTG-catalyzed polymerization of GST P1-1 leads to its functional inactivation and is competitively inhibited by GSH. By contrast, the tTG-beta-tubulin interaction does not result in the cross-linking of this cytoskeletal protein, which suggests that microtubules act as the anchorage site for tTG and GST P1-1 interaction.
9989505	Menin interacts with the AP1 transcription factor JunD and represses JunD-activated transcription.	MEN1 is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a 610 amino acid nuclear protein (menin) of previously unknown function. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen with menin as the bait, we have identified the transcription factor JunD as a direct menin-interacting partner. Menin did not interact directly with other Jun and Fos family members. The menin-JunD interaction was confirmed in vitro and in vivo. Menin repressed transcriptional activation mediated by JunD fused to the Gal4 DNA-binding domain from a Gal4 responsive reporter, or by JunD from an AP1-responsive reporter. Several naturally occurring and clustered MEN1 missense mutations disrupted menin interaction with JunD. These observations suggest that menin's tumor suppressor function involves direct binding to JunD and inhibition of JunD activated transcription.
9990017	Modulation of type M2 pyruvate kinase activity by the human papillomavirus type 16 E7 oncoprotein.	We report here that the E7 oncoprotein encoded by the oncogenic human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 binds to the glycolytic enzyme type M2 pyruvate kinase (M2-PK). M2-PK occurs in a tetrameric form with a high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate and a dimeric form with a low affinity to phosphoenolpyruvate, and the transition between both conformations regulates the glycolytic flux in tumor cells. The glycolytic intermediate fructose 1, 6-bisphosphate induces the reassociation of the dimeric to the tetrameric form of M2-PK. The expression of E7 in an experimental cell line shifts the equilibrium to the dimeric state despite a significant increase in the fructose 1,6-bisphosphate levels. Investigations of HPV-16 E7 mutants and the nononcogenic HPV-11 subtype suggest that the interaction of HPV-16 E7 with M2-PK may be linked to the transforming potential of the viral oncoprotein.
10620504	Bax oligomerization is required for channel-forming activity in liposomes and to trigger cytochrome c release from mitochondria.	Bax is a Bcl-2-family protein with pro-apoptotic activity that can form channels in lipid membranes. The protein has been shown to trigger cytochrome c release from mitochondria both in vitro and in vivo. Recombinant human Bax isolated in the presence of detergent was found to be present as an oligomer with an apparent molecular mass of approx. 160000 Da on gel filtration. When Bax was isolated in the absence of detergent the purified protein was monomeric with an apparent molecular mass of 22000 Da. Bax oligomers formed channels in liposomes and triggered cytochrome c release from isolated mitochondria, whereas monomeric Bax was inactive in both respects. Incubation of the monomeric Bax with 2% octyl glucoside induced formation of oligomers that displayed channel-forming activity in liposomes and triggered cytochrome c release from mitochondria. Triton X-100, Nonidet P-40 and n-dedecyl maltoside also activated monomeric Bax, whereas CHAPS had no activating effect. In cytosolic extracts from mouse liver, Bax migrated at a molecular mass of 24000 Da on gel filtration, whereas after incubation of the cytosol with 2% octyl glucoside Bax migrated at approximately 140000 Da. These results show that oligomeric Bax possesses channel-forming activity whereas monomeric Bax has no such activity.
10629049	Mutations in host cell factor 1 separate its role in cell proliferation from recruitment of VP16 and LZIP.	Host cell factor 1 (HCF-1) is a nuclear protein required for progression through G(1) phase of the cell cycle and, via its association with VP16, transcriptional activation of the herpes simplex virus immediate-early genes. Both functions require a six-bladed beta-propeller domain encoded by residues 1 to 380 of HCF-1 as well as an additional amino-terminal region. The beta-propeller domain is well conserved in HCF homologues, consistent with a critical cellular function. To date, the only known cellular target of the beta-propeller is a bZIP transcription factor known as LZIP or Luman. Whether the interaction between HCF-1 and LZIP is required for cell proliferation remains to be determined. In this study, we used directed mutations to show that all six blades of the HCF-1 beta-propeller contribute to VP16-induced complex assembly, association with LZIP, and cell cycle progression. Although LZIP and VP16 share a common tetrapeptide HCF-binding motif, our results reveal profound differences in their interaction with HCF-1. Importantly, with several of the mutants we observe a poor correlation between the ability to associate with LZIP and promote cell proliferation in the context of the full HCF-1 amino terminus, arguing that the HCF-1 beta-propeller domain must target other cellular transcription factors in order to contribute to G(1) progression.
10637310	Vps52p, Vps53p, and Vps54p form a novel multisubunit complex required for protein sorting at the yeast late Golgi.	The late Golgi of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae receives membrane traffic from the secretory pathway as well as retrograde traffic from post-Golgi compartments, but the machinery that regulates these vesicle-docking and fusion events has not been characterized. We have identified three components of a novel protein complex that is required for protein sorting at the yeast late Golgi compartment. Mutation of VPS52, VPS53, or VPS54 results in the missorting of 70% of the vacuolar hydrolase carboxypeptidase Y as well as the mislocalization of late Golgi membrane proteins to the vacuole, whereas protein traffic through the early part of the Golgi complex is unaffected. A vps52/53/54 triple mutant strain is phenotypically indistinguishable from each of the single mutants, consistent with the model that all three are required for a common step in membrane transport. Native coimmunoprecipitation experiments indicate that Vps52p, Vps53p, and Vps54p are associated in a 1:1:1 complex that sediments as a single peak on sucrose velocity gradients. This complex, which exists both in a soluble pool and as a peripheral component of a membrane fraction, colocalizes with markers of the yeast late Golgi by immunofluorescence microscopy. Together, the phenotypic and biochemical data suggest that VPS52, VPS53, and VPS54 are required for the retrograde transport of Golgi membrane proteins from an endosomal/prevacuolar compartment. The Vps52/53/54 complex joins a growing list of distinct multisubunit complexes that regulate membrane-trafficking events.
10653975	Differential nuclear localization and nuclear matrix association of the splicing factors PSF and PTB.	A monoclonal antibody raised against nuclear matrix proteins detected a protein of basic pI in human nuclear matrix protein samples of various cellular origin. The ubiquitously occurring (common) nuclear matrix protein was identified as splicing factor PSF (PTB associated splicing factor). The interaction between the splicing factors PSF and PTB/hnRNP I was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation from nuclear salt extracts. However, the nuclear localization of PSF and PTB and their distribution in subnuclear fractions differed markedly. Isolated nuclear matrices contained the bulk of PSF, but only minor amounts of PTB. In confocal microscopy both proteins appeared in speckles, the majority of which did not co-localize. Removing a large fraction of the soluble PTB structures by salt extraction revealed some colocalization of the more stable PTB fraction with PSF. These PTB/PSF complexes as well as the observed PSF-PTB interaction may reflect the previously reported presence of PTB and PSF in spliceosomal complexes during RNA processing. The present data, however, point to different cellular distribution and nuclear matrix association of the majority of PSF and PTB.
10662863	The Arabidopsis NPR1/NIM1 protein enhances the DNA binding activity of a subgroup of the TGA family of bZIP transcription factors.	The Arabidopsis NPR1 gene is essential in activating systemic, inducible plant defense responses. To gain a better understanding of NPR1 function, we conducted a yeast two-hybrid screening procedure and identified a differential interaction between NPR1 and all known members of the Arabidopsis TGA family of basic leucine zipper transcription factors. In the electrophoretic mobility shift assay, NPR1 substantially increased the binding of TGA2 to its cognate promoter element (as-1) as well as to a positive salicylic acid-inducible element (LS7) and a negative element (LS5) in the promoter of the pathogenesis-related PR-1 gene. Proteins encoded by npr1 mutants interacted poorly with TGA2 and did not substantially increase TGA2 binding to the as-1, LS5, or LS7 elements, thus establishing a link between the loss of disease resistance and the loss of TGA2 interaction and NPR1-enhanced DNA binding. Coupled with observations that the DNA binding activity of TGA factors is deregulated in npr1 plants, the results suggest that NPR1-mediated DNA binding of TGA2 is critical for activation of defense genes.
10675328	Induction of apoptosis by Drosophila reaper, hid and grim through inhibition of IAP function.	Induction of apoptosis in Drosophila requires the activity of three closely linked genes, reaper, hid and grim. Here we show that the proteins encoded by reaper, hid and grim activate cell death by inhibiting the anti-apoptotic activity of the Drosophila IAP1 (diap1) protein. In a genetic modifier screen, both loss-of-function and gain-of-function alleles in the endogenous diap1 gene were obtained, and the mutant proteins were functionally and biochemically characterized. Gain-of-function mutations in diap1 strongly suppressed reaper-, hid- and grim-induced apoptosis. Sequence analysis of these alleles revealed that they were caused by single amino acid changes in the baculovirus IAP repeat domains of diap1, a domain implicated in binding REAPER, HID and GRIM. Significantly, the corresponding mutant DIAP1 proteins displayed greatly reduced binding of REAPER, HID and GRIM, indicating that REAPER, HID and GRIM kill by forming a complex with DIAP1. These data provide strong in vivo evidence for a previously published model of cell death regulation in Drosophila.
10675337	The novel coactivator C1 (HCF) coordinates multiprotein enhancer formation and mediates transcription activation by GABP.	Transcription of the herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) immediate early (IE) genes is determined by multiprotein enhancer complexes. The core enhancer assembly requires the interactions of the POU-homeodomain protein Oct-1, the viral transactivator alphaTIF and the cellular factor C1 (HCF). In this context, the C1 factor interacts with each protein to assemble the stable enhancer complex. In addition, the IE enhancer cores contain adjacent binding sites for other cellular transcription factors such as Sp1 and GA-binding protein (GABP). In this study, a direct interaction of the C1 factor with GABP is demonstrated, defining the C1 factor as the critical coordinator of the enhancer complex assembly. In addition, mutations that reduce the GABP transactivation potential also impair the C1-GABP interaction, indicating that the C1 factor functions as a novel coactivator of GABP-mediated transcription. The interaction and coordinated assembly of the enhancer proteins by the C1 factor may be critical for the regulation of the HSV lytic-latent cycle.
10676816	Structure of the Rho family GTP-binding protein Cdc42 in complex with the multifunctional regulator RhoGDI.	The RhoGDI proteins serve as key multifunctional regulators of Rho family GTP-binding proteins. The 2.6 A X-ray crystallographic structure of the Cdc42/RhoGDI complex reveals two important sites of interaction between GDI and Cdc42. First, the amino-terminal regulatory arm of the GDI binds to the switch I and II domains of Cdc42 leading to the inhibition of both GDP dissociation and GTP hydrolysis. Second, the geranylgeranyl moiety of Cdc42 inserts into a hydrophobic pocket within the immunoglobulin-like domain of the GDI molecule leading to membrane release. The structural data demonstrate how GDIs serve as negative regulators of small GTP-binding proteins and how the isoprenoid moiety is utilized in this critical regulatory interaction.
10684247	The yeast nuclear pore complex: composition, architecture, and transport mechanism.	An understanding of how the nuclear pore complex (NPC) mediates nucleocytoplasmic exchange requires a comprehensive inventory of the molecular components of the NPC and a knowledge of how each component contributes to the overall structure of this large molecular translocation machine. Therefore, we have taken a comprehensive approach to classify all components of the yeast NPC (nucleoporins). This involved identifying all the proteins present in a highly enriched NPC fraction, determining which of these proteins were nucleoporins, and localizing each nucleoporin within the NPC. Using these data, we present a map of the molecular architecture of the yeast NPC and provide evidence for a Brownian affinity gating mechanism for nucleocytoplasmic transport.
10704444	PEX19 binds multiple peroxisomal membrane proteins, is predominantly cytoplasmic, and is required for peroxisome membrane synthesis.	Peroxisomes are components of virtually all eukaryotic cells. While much is known about peroxisomal matrix protein import, our understanding of how peroxisomal membrane proteins (PMPs) are targeted and inserted into the peroxisome membrane is extremely limited. Here, we show that PEX19 binds a broad spectrum of PMPs, displays saturable PMP binding, and interacts with regions of PMPs required for their targeting to peroxisomes. Furthermore, mislocalization of PEX19 to the nucleus leads to nuclear accumulation of newly synthesized PMPs. At steady state, PEX19 is bimodally distributed between the cytoplasm and peroxisome, with most of the protein in the cytoplasm. We propose that PEX19 may bind newly synthesized PMPs and facilitate their insertion into the peroxisome membrane. This hypothesis is supported by the observation that the loss of PEX19 results in degradation of PMPs and/or mislocalization of PMPs to the mitochondrion.
10713164	SKIP, a CBF1-associated protein, interacts with the ankyrin repeat domain of NotchIC To facilitate NotchIC function.	Notch proteins are transmembrane receptors that mediate intercell communication and direct individual cell fate decisions. The activated intracellular form of Notch, NotchIC, translocates to the nucleus, where it targets the DNA binding protein CBF1. CBF1 mediates transcriptional repression through the recruitment of an SMRT-histone deacetylase-containing corepressor complex. We have examined the mechanism whereby NotchIC overcomes CBF1-mediated transcriptional repression. We identified SKIP (Ski-interacting protein) as a CBF1 binding protein in a yeast two-hybrid screen. Both CBF1 and SKIP are highly conserved evolutionarily, and the SKIP-CBF1 interaction is also conserved in assays using the Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster SKIP homologs. Protein-protein interaction assays demonstrated interaction between SKIP and the corepressor SMRT. More surprisingly, SKIP also interacted with NotchIC. The SMRT and NotchIC interactions were mutually exclusive. In competition binding experiments SMRT displaced NotchIC from CBF1 and from SKIP. Contact with SKIP is required for biological activity of NotchIC. A mutation in the fourth ankyrin repeat that abolished Notch signal transduction did not affect interaction with CBF1 but abolished interaction with SKIP. Further, NotchIC was unable to block muscle cell differentiation in myoblasts expressing antisense SKIP. The results suggest a model in which NotchIC activates responsive promoters by competing with the SMRT-corepressor complex for contacts on both CBF1 and SKIP.
10725334	Toc64, a new component of the protein translocon of chloroplasts.	A subunit of the preprotein translocon of the outer envelope of chloroplasts (Toc complex) of 64 kD is described, Toc64. Toc64 copurifies on sucrose density gradients with the isolated Toc complex. Furthermore, it can be cross-linked in intact chloroplasts to a high molecular weight complex containing both Toc and Tic subunits and a precursor protein. The 0 A cross-linker CuCl(2) yields the reversible formation of disulfide bridge(s) between Toc64 and the established Toc complex subunits in purified outer envelope membranes. Toc64 contains three tetratricopeptide repeat motifs that are exposed at the chloroplast cytosol interface. We propose that Toc64 functions early in preprotein translocation, maybe as a docking protein for cytosolic cofactors of the protein import into chloroplasts.
10725350	The Arabidopsis SOS2 protein kinase physically interacts with and is activated by the calcium-binding protein SOS3.	The Arabidopsis thaliana SOS2 and SOS3 genes are required for intracellular Na(+) and K(+) homeostasis and plant tolerance to high Na(+) and low K(+) environments. SOS3 is an EF hand type calcium-binding protein having sequence similarities with animal neuronal calcium sensors and the yeast calcineurin B. SOS2 is a serine/threonine protein kinase in the SNF1/AMPK family. We report here that SOS3 physically interacts with and activates SOS2 protein kinase. Genetically, sos2sos3 double mutant analysis indicates that SOS2 and SOS3 function in the same pathway. Biochemically, SOS2 interacts with SOS3 in the yeast two-hybrid system and in vitro binding assays. The interaction is mediated by the C-terminal regulatory domain of SOS2. SOS3 activates SOS2 protein kinase activity in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Therefore, SOS3 and SOS2 define a novel regulatory pathway important for the control of intracellular ion homeostasis and salt tolerance in plants.
10747027	The structure of mouse HP1 suggests a unique mode of single peptide recognition by the shadow chromo domain dimer.	The heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1) family of proteins is involved in gene silencing via the formation of heterochromatic structures. They are composed of two related domains: an N-terminal chromo domain and a C-terminal shadow chromo domain. Present results suggest that chromo domains may function as protein interaction motifs, bringing together different proteins in multi-protein complexes and locating them in heterochromatin. We have previously determined the structure of the chromo domain from the mouse HP1beta protein, MOD1. We show here that, in contrast to the chromo domain, the shadow chromo domain is a homodimer. The intact HP1beta protein is also dimeric, where the interaction is mediated by the shadow chromo domain, with the chromo domains moving independently of each other at the end of flexible linkers. Mapping studies, with fragments of the CAF1 and TIF1beta proteins, show that an intact, dimeric, shadow chromo domain structure is required for complex formation.
10783163	Ku complex interacts with and stimulates the Werner protein.	Werner syndrome (WS) is the hallmark premature aging disorder in which affected humans appear older than their chronological age. The protein WRNp, defective in WS, has helicase function, DNA-dependent ATPase, and exonuclease activity. Although WRNp functions in nucleic acid metabolism, there is little or no information about the pathways or protein interactions in which it participates. Here we identify Ku70 and Ku86 as proteins that interact with WRNp. Although Ku proteins had no effect on ATPase or helicase activity, they strongly stimulated specific exonuclease activity. These results suggest that WRNp and the Ku complex participate in a common DNA metabolic pathway.
10801128	TACI and BCMA are receptors for a TNF homologue implicated in B-cell autoimmune disease.	B cells are important in the development of autoimmune disorders by mechanisms involving dysregulated polyclonal B-cell activation, production of pathogenic antibodies, and co-stimulation of autoreactive T cells. zTNF4 (BLyS, BAFF, TALL-1, THANK) is a member of the tumour necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family that is a potent co-activator of B cells in vitro and in vivo. Here we identify two receptors for zTNF4 and demonstrate a relationship between zTNF4 and autoimmune disease. Transgenic animals overexpressing zTNF4 in lymphoid cells develop symptoms characteristic of systemic lupus erythaematosus (SLE) and expand a rare population of splenic B-Ia lymphocytes. In addition, circulating zTNF4 is more abundant in NZBWF1 and MRL-lpr/lpr mice during the onset and progression of SLE. We have identified two TNF receptor family members, TACI and BCMA, that bind zTNF4. Treatment of NZBWF1 mice with soluble TACI-Ig fusion protein inhibits the development of proteinuria and prolongs survival of the animals. These findings demonstrate the involvement of zTNF4 and its receptors in the development of SLE and identify TACI-Ig as a promising treatment of autoimmune disease in humans.
10802735	Structure of Cdc42 bound to the GTPase binding domain of PAK.	The Rho family GTPases, Cdc42, Rac and Rho, regulate signal transduction pathways via interactions with downstream effector proteins. We report here the solution structure of Cdc42 bound to the GTPase binding domain of alphaPAK, an effector of both Cdc42 and Rac. The structure is compared with those of Cdc42 bound to similar fragments of ACK and WASP, two effector proteins that bind only to Cdc42. The N-termini of all three effector fragments bind in an extended conformation to strand beta2 of Cdc42, and contact helices alpha1 and alpha5. The remaining residues bind to switches I and II of Cdc42, but in a significantly different manner. The structure, together with mutagenesis data, suggests reasons for the specificity of these interactions and provides insight into the mechanism of PAK activation.
10805725	Class II phosphoinositide 3-kinases are downstream targets of activated polypeptide growth factor receptors.	The class II phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3K) PI3K-C2alpha and PI3K-C2beta are two recently identified members of the large PI3K family. Both enzymes are characterized by the presence of a C2 domain at the carboxy terminus and, in vitro, preferentially utilize phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylinositol 4-monophosphate as lipid substrates. Little is understood about how the catalytic activity of either enzyme is regulated in vivo. In this study, we demonstrate that PI3K-C2alpha and PI3K-C2beta represent two downstream targets of the activated epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor in human carcinoma-derived A431 cells. Stimulation of quiescent cultures with EGF resulted in the rapid recruitment of both enzymes to a phosphotyrosine signaling complex that contained the EGF receptor and Erb-B2. Ligand addition also induced the appearance of a second, more slowly migrating band of PI3K-C2alpha and PI3K-C2beta immunoreactivity on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Since both PI3K enzymes can utilize Ca(2+) as an essential divalent cation in lipid kinase assays and since the catalytic activity of PI3K-C2alpha is refractory to the inhibitor wortmannin, these properties were used to confirm the recruitment of each PI3K isozyme to the activated EGF receptor complex. To examine this interaction in greater detail, PI3K-C2beta was chosen for further investigation. EGF and platelet-derived growth factor also stimulated the association of PI3K-C2beta with their respective receptors in other cells, including epithelial cells and fibroblasts. The use of EGF receptor mutants and phosphopeptides derived from the EGF receptor and Erb-B2 demonstrated that the interaction with recombinant PI3K-C2beta occurs through E(p)YL/I phosphotyrosine motifs. The N-terminal region of PI3K-C2beta was found to selectively interact with the EGF receptor in vitro, suggesting that it mediates the association of this PI3K with the receptor. However, the mechanism of this interaction remains unclear. We conclude that class II PI3K enzymes may contribute to the generation of 3' phosphoinositides following the activation of polypeptide growth factor receptors in vivo and thus mediate certain aspects of their biological activity.
10809768	TAJ, a novel member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family, activates the c-Jun N-terminal kinase pathway and mediates caspase-independent cell death.	We have isolated a novel member of the TNFR family, designated TAJ, that is highly expressed during embryonic development. TAJ possesses a unique cytoplasmic domain with no sequence homology to the previously characterized members of the TNFR family. TAJ interacts with the TRAF family members and activates the JNK pathway when overexpressed in mammalian cells. Although it lacks a death domain, TAJ is capable of inducing apoptosis by a caspase-independent mechanism. Based on its unique expression profile and signaling properties, TAJ may play an essential role in embryonic development.
10823891	The Huntington's disease protein interacts with p53 and CREB-binding protein and represses transcription.	Huntington's Disease (HD) is caused by an expansion of a polyglutamine tract within the huntingtin (htt) protein. Pathogenesis in HD appears to include the cytoplasmic cleavage of htt and release of an amino-terminal fragment capable of nuclear localization. We have investigated potential consequences to nuclear function of a pathogenic amino-terminal region of htt (httex1p) including aggregation, protein-protein interactions, and transcription. httex1p was found to coaggregate with p53 in inclusions generated in cell culture and to interact with p53 in vitro and in cell culture. Expanded httex1p represses transcription of the p53-regulated promoters, p21(WAF1/CIP1) and MDR-1. httex1p was also found to interact in vitro with CREB-binding protein (CBP) and mSin3a, and CBP to localize to neuronal intranuclear inclusions in a transgenic mouse model of HD. These results raise the possibility that expanded repeat htt causes aberrant transcriptional regulation through its interaction with cellular transcription factors which may result in neuronal dysfunction and cell death in HD.
10836794	Mtt1 is a Upf1-like helicase that interacts with the translation termination factors and whose overexpression can modulate termination efficiency.	Translation termination is the final step that completes the synthesis of a polypeptide. Premature translation termination by introduction of a nonsense mutation leads to the synthesis of a truncated protein. We report the identification and characterization of the product of the MTT1 gene, a helicase belonging to the Upfl-like family of helicases that is involved in modulating translation termination. MTT1 is homologous to UPF1, a factor previously shown to function in both mRNA turnover and translation termination. Overexpression of MTT1 induced a nonsense suppression phenotype in a wild-type yeast strain. Nonsense suppression is apparently not due to induction of [PSI+], even though cooverexpression of HSP104 alleviated the nonsense suppression phenotype observed in cells overexpressing MTT1, suggesting a more direct role of Hsp104p in the translation termination process. The MTT1 gene product was shown to interact with translation termination factors and is localized to polysomes. Taken together, these results indicate that at least two members of a family of RNA helicases modulate translation termination efficiency in cells.
10837468	Aut7p, a soluble autophagic factor, participates in multiple membrane trafficking processes.	Aut7p, a protein recently implicated in autophagic events in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, exhibits significant homology to a mammalian protein, p16, herein termed GATE-16 (Golgi-associated ATPase Enhancer of 16 kDa), a novel intra-Golgi transport factor. Here we provide evidence for the involvement of Aut7p in different membrane trafficking processes. Aut7p largely substitutes for the activity of GATE-16 in mammalian intra-Golgi transport in vitro. In vivo, AUT7 interacts genetically with endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi SNAREs, specifically with BET1 and SEC22. Aut7p interacts physically with the following two v-SNAREs: Bet1p, which is involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicular transport, and Nyv1p, implicated in vacuolar inheritance. We suggest that, in addition to its role in autophagocytosis, Aut7p has pleiotropic effects and participates in at least two membrane traffic events.
10846174	Disruption of the CED-9.CED-4 complex by EGL-1 is a critical step for programmed cell death in Caenorhabditis elegans.	In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, the apoptotic machinery is composed of four basic elements: the caspase CED-3, the Apaf-1 homologue CED-4, and the Bcl-2 family members CED-9 and EGL-1. The ced-9(n1950) gain-of-function mutation prevents most, if not all, somatic cell deaths in C. elegans. It encodes a CED-9 protein with a glycine-to-glutamate substitution at position 169, which is located within the highly conserved Bcl-2 homology 1 domain. We performed biochemical analyses with the CED-9G169E protein to gain insight into the mechanism of programmed cell death. We find that CED-9G169E retains the ability to bind both EGL-1 and CED-4, although its affinity for EGL-1 is reduced. In contrast to the behavior of wild-type CED-9, the interaction between CED-9G169E and CED-4 is not disrupted by expression of EGL-1. Furthermore, CED-4 and CED-9G169E co-localizes with EGL-1 to the mitochondria in mammalian cells, and expression of EGL-1 does not induce translocation of CED-4 to the cytosol. Finally, the ability of EGL-1 to promote apoptosis is impaired by the replacement of wild-type CED-9 with CED-9G169E, and this effect is correlated with the inability of EGL-1 to induce the displacement of CED-4 from the CED-9.CED-4 complex. These studies suggest that the release of CED-4 from the CED-9.CED-4 complex is a necessary step for induction of programmed cell death in C. elegans.
10854325	Tollip, a new component of the IL-1RI pathway, links IRAK to the IL-1 receptor.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a proinflammatory cytokine that elicits its pleiotropic effects through activation of the transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1. Binding of IL-1 to its receptor results in rapid assembly of a membrane-proximal signalling complex that consists of two different receptor chains (IL-1Rs), IL-1RI and IL-1RAcP, the adaptor protein MyD88, the serine/threonine kinase IRAK and a new protein, which we have named Tollip. Here we show that, before IL-1beta treatment, Tollip is present in a complex with IRAK, and that recruitment of Tollip-IRAK complexes to the activated receptor complex occurs through association of Tollip with IL-1RAcP. Co-recruited MyD88 then triggers IRAK autophosphorylation, which in turn leads to rapid dissociation of IRAK from Tollip (and IL-1Rs). As overexpression of Tollip results in impaired NF-kappaB activation, we conclude that Tollip is an important constituent of the IL-1R signalling pathway.
10871379	Zhangfei: a second cellular protein interacts with herpes simplex virus accessory factor HCF in a manner similar to Luman and VP16.	Host cell factor (HCF, C1, VCAF or CFF) is a cellular protein that is required for transcription activation of herpes simplex virus (HSV) immediate-early (IE) genes by the virion protein VP16. The biological function of HCF remains unclear. Recently we identified a cellular transcription activator, Luman. As with VP16, the transactivation function of Luman is also regulated by HCF. Here we report a second human protein, Zhangfei (ZF) that interacts with HCF in a fashion similar to Luman and VP16. Although ZF shares no significant sequence homology with Luman, the two proteins have some structural similarities. These include: a basic domain-leucine zipper (bZIP) region, an acidic activation domain and a consensus HCF-binding motif. Unlike Luman, or most other bZIP proteins, ZF by itself did not appear to bind consensus bZIP-binding sites. It was also unable to activate promoters containing these response elements. Although in transient expression assays ectopically expressed ZF was unable to block transactivation by VP16 of a HSV IE promoter, ZF could prevent the expression of several HSV proteins in cells infected with the virus. The ability of ZF to block the synthesis of the HSV IE protein ICP0 relied on its binding to HCF, since a mutant of ZF that was unable to bind HCF was also unable to prevent viral IE protein expression.
10880445	The apoptotic signaling pathway activated by Toll-like receptor-2.	The innate immune system uses Toll family receptors to signal for the presence of microbes and initiate host defense. Bacterial lipoproteins (BLPs), which are expressed by all bacteria, are potent activators of Toll-like receptor-2 (TLR2). Here we show that the adaptor molecule, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), mediates both apoptosis and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation by BLP-stimulated TLR2. Inhibition of the NF-kappaB pathway downstream of MyD88 potentiates apoptosis, indicating that these two pathways bifurcate at the level of MyD88. TLR2 signals for apoptosis through MyD88 via a pathway involving Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD) and caspase 8. Moreover, MyD88 binds FADD and is sufficient to induce apoptosis. These data indicate that TLR2 is a novel 'death receptor' that engages the apoptotic machinery without a conventional cytoplasmic death domain. Through TLR2, BLP induces the synthesis of the precursor of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta). Interestingly, BLP also activates caspase 1 through TLR2, resulting in proteolysis and secretion of mature IL-1beta. These results indicate that caspase activation is an innate immune response to microbial pathogens, culminating in apoptosis and cytokine production.
10880535	TACI is a TRAF-interacting receptor for TALL-1, a tumor necrosis factor family member involved in B cell regulation.	We and others recently reported tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and apoptosis ligand-related leukocyte-expressed ligand 1 (TALL-1) as a novel member of the TNF ligand family that is functionally involved in B cell proliferation. Transgenic mice overexpressing TALL-1 have severe B cell hyperplasia and lupus-like autoimmune disease. Here, we describe expression cloning of a cell surface receptor for TALL-1 from a human Burkitt's lymphoma RAJI cell library. The cloned receptor is identical to the previously reported TNF receptor (TNFR) homologue transmembrane activator and calcium modulator and cyclophilin ligand (CAML) interactor (TACI). Murine TACI was subsequently isolated from the mouse B lymphoma A20 cells. Human and murine TACI share 54% identity overall. Human TACI exhibits high binding affinities to both human and murine TALL-1. Soluble TACI extracellular domain protein specifically blocks TALL-1-mediated B cell proliferation without affecting CD40- or lipopolysaccharide-mediated B cell proliferation in vitro. In addition, when injected into mice, soluble TACI inhibits antibody production to both T cell-dependent and -independent antigens. By yeast two-hybrid screening of a B cell library with TACI intracellular domain, we identified that, like many other TNFR family members, TACI intracellular domain interacts with TNFR-associated factor (TRAF)2, 5, and 6. Correspondingly, TACI activation in a B cell line results in nuclear factor kappaB and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase activation. The identification and characterization of the receptor for TALL-1 provides useful information for the development of a treatment for B cell-mediated autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus.
10894160	FADD/MORT1 and caspase-8 are recruited to TRAIL receptors 1 and 2 and are essential for apoptosis mediated by TRAIL receptor 2.	Apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL/APO-2L) has been shown to exert important functions during various immunological processes. The involvement of the death adaptor proteins FADD/MORT1, TRADD, and RIP and the apoptosis-initiating caspases-8 and -10 in death signaling by the two death-inducing TRAIL receptors 1 and 2 (TRAIL-R1 and TRAIL-R2) are controversial. Analysis of the native TRAIL death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) revealed ligand-dependent recruitment of FADD/MORT1 and caspase-8. Differential precipitation of ligand-stimulated TRAIL receptors demonstrated that FADD/MORT1 and caspase-8 were recruited to TRAIL-R1 and TRAIL-R2 independently of each other. FADD/MORT1- and caspase-8-deficient Jurkat cells expressing only TRAIL-R2 were resistant to TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Thus, FADD/MORT1 and caspase-8 are essential for apoptosis induction via TRAIL-R2.
10920205	T6BP, a TRAF6-interacting protein involved in IL-1 signaling.	We report the identification of a TRAF-interacting protein, T6BP, that specifically associates with TRAF6. This interaction occurs between the coiled-coil region of T6BP and the N-terminal ring finger and zinc finger domains of TRAF6. IL-1, but not tumor necrosis factor, induces TRAF6-T6BP complex formation in a ligand-dependent manner. Formation of the TRAF6-T6BP complex depends on the presence of the IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK). After IL-1 stimulation, TRAF6 can exist in two separate complexes, TRAF6-IRAK or TRAF6-T6BP, but IRAK is not present in TRAF6-T6BP complexes. T6BP does not seem to play a direct role in activation of IkappaB kinases or Jun N-terminal kinase.
10921873	COP I domains required for coatomer integrity, and novel interactions with ARF and ARF-GAP.	We performed a systematic mapping of interaction domains on COP I subunits to gain novel insights into the architecture of coatomer. Using the two-hybrid system, we characterize the domain structure of the alpha-, beta'-, epsilon-COP and beta-, gamma-, delta-, zeta-COP coatomer subcomplexes and identify links between them that contribute to coatomer integrity. Our results demonstrate that the domain organization of the beta-, gamma-, delta-, zeta-COP subcomplex and AP adaptor complexes is related. Through in vivo analysis of alpha-COP truncation mutants, we characterize distinct functional domains on alpha-COP. Its N-terminal WD40 domain is dispensable for yeast cell viability and overall coatomer function, but is required for KKXX-dependent trafficking. The last approximately 170 amino acids of alpha-COP are also non-essential for cell viability, but required for epsilon-COP incorporation into coatomer and maintainance of normal epsilon-COP levels. Further, we demonstrate novel direct interactions of coatomer subunits with regulatory proteins: beta'- and gamma-COP interact with the ARF-GTP-activating protein (GAP) Glo3p, but not Gcs1p, and beta- and epsilon-COP interact with ARF-GTP. Glo3p also interacts with intact coatomer in vitro.
10924358	Cloning and expression of ZAK, a mixed lineage kinase-like protein containing a leucine-zipper and a sterile-alpha motif.	A novel mixed lineage kinase-like protein ZAK, containing a leucine-zipper (LZ) and a sterile-alpha motif (SAM), was cloned. This cDNA has 2456 bp and encodes a protein of 800 amino acids that contains a kinase catalytic domain, a leucine-zipper and a SAM. The molecular weight of this protein is 91kDa. Northern blot analysis revealed that the expression of this ZAK gene is found in various parts of human tissues. We also found that ZAK proteins might form homodimers or oligomers in mammalian cells. MLKs have been proposed to function as mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase in pathways leading to MAPK cascade. The expression of ZAK in mammalian cells specifically leads to the activation of the JNK/SAPK pathway as well as the activation of transcription factor, NF-kappaB. Overexpression of the ZAK gene induces the apoptosis of a hepatoma cell line.
10929712	Identification of DIABLO, a mammalian protein that promotes apoptosis by binding to and antagonizing IAP proteins.	To identify proteins that bind mammalian IAP homolog A (MIHA, also known as XIAP), we used coimmuno-precipitation and 2D immobilized pH gradient/SDS PAGE, followed by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. DIABLO (direct IAP binding protein with low pI) is a novel protein that can bind MIHA and can also interact with MIHB and MIHC and the baculoviral IAP, OpIAP. The N-terminally processed, IAP-interacting form of DIABLO is concentrated in membrane fractions in healthy cells but released into the MIHA-containing cytosolic fractions upon UV irradiation. As transfection of cells with DIABLO was able to counter the protection afforded by MIHA against UV irradiation, DIABLO may promote apoptosis by binding to IAPs and preventing them from inhibiting caspases.
10935637	Glycosyltransferase activity of Fringe modulates Notch-Delta interactions.	Ligands that are capable of activating Notch family receptors are broadly expressed in animal development, but their activity is tightly regulated to allow formation of tissue boundaries. Members of the fringe gene family have been implicated in limiting Notch activation during boundary formation, but the mechanism of Fringe function has not been determined. Here we present evidence that Fringe acts in the Golgi as a glycosyltransferase enzyme that modifies the epidermal growth factor (EGF) modules of Notch and alters the ability of Notch to bind its ligand Delta. Fringe catalyses the addition of N-acetylglucosamine to fucose, which is consistent with a role in the elongation of O-linked fucose O-glycosylation that is associated with EGF repeats. We suggest that cell-type-specific modification of glycosylation may provide a general mechanism to regulate ligand-receptor interactions in vivo.
10944212	A Ypt/Rab effector complex containing the Sec1 homolog Vps33p is required for homotypic vacuole fusion.	Yeast vacuoles undergo priming, docking, and homotypic fusion, although little has been known of the connections between these reactions. Vacuole-associated Vam2p and Vam6p (Vam2/6p) are components of a 65S complex containing SNARE proteins. Upon priming by Sec18p/NSF and ATP, Vam2/6p is released as a 38S subcomplex that binds Ypt7p to initiate docking. We now report that the 38S complex consists of both Vam2/6p and the class C Vps proteins [Reider, S. E. and Emr, S. D. (1997) Mol. Biol. Cell 8, 2307-2327]. This complex includes Vps33p, a member of the Sec1 family of proteins that bind t-SNAREs. We term this 38S complex HOPS, for homotypic fusion and vacuole protein sorting. This unexpected finding explains how Vam2/6p associates with SNAREs and provides a mechanistic link of the class C Vps proteins to Ypt/Rab action. HOPS initially associates with vacuole SNAREs in "cis" and, after release by priming, hops to Ypt7p, activating this Ypt/Rab switch to initiate docking.
10956646	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily member TACI is a high affinity receptor for TNF family members APRIL and BLyS.	An expression cloning approach was employed to identify the receptor for B-lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS) and identified the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member TACI as a BLyS-binding protein. Expression of TACI in HEK293T cells confers on the cells the ability to bind BLyS with subnanomolar affinity. Furthermore, a TACI-Fc fusion protein recognizes both the cleaved, soluble form of BLyS as well as the membrane BLyS present on the cell surface of a recombinant cell line. TACI mRNA is found predominantly in B-cells and correlates with BLyS binding in a panel of B-cell lines. We also demonstrate that TACI interacts with nanomolar affinity with the BLyS-related tumor necrosis factor homologue APRIL for which no clear in vivo role has been described. BLyS and APRIL are capable of signaling through TACI to mediate NF-kappaB responses in HEK293 cells. We conclude that TACI is a receptor for BLyS and APRIL and discuss the implications for B-cell biology.
10995389	Cell cycle- and cell growth-regulated proteolysis of mammalian CDC6 is dependent on APC-CDH1.	CDC6 is conserved during evolution and is essential and limiting for the initiation of eukaryotic DNA replication. Human CDC6 activity is regulated by periodic transcription and CDK-regulated subcellular localization. Here, we show that, in addition to being absent from nonproliferating cells, CDC6 is targeted for ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis by the anaphase promoting complex (APC)/cyclosome in G(1). A combination of point mutations in the destruction box and KEN-box motifs in CDC6 stabilizes the protein in G(1) and in quiescent cells. Furthermore, APC, in association with CDH1, ubiquitinates CDC6 in vitro, and both APC and CDH1 are required and limiting for CDC6 proteolysis in vivo. Although a stable mutant of CDC6 is biologically active, overexpression of this mutant or wild-type CDC6 is not sufficient to induce multiple rounds of DNA replication in the same cell cycle. The APC-CDH1-dependent proteolysis of CDC6 in early G(1) and in quiescent cells suggests that this process is part of a mechanism that ensures the timely licensing of replication origins during G(1).
10995393	HFR1 encodes an atypical bHLH protein that acts in phytochrome A signal transduction.	Phytochromes are informational photoreceptors through which plants adapt their growth and development to prevailing light conditions. These adaptations are effected primarily through phytochrome regulation of gene expression by mechanisms that remain unclear. We describe a new mutant, hfr1 (long hypocotyl in far-red), that exhibits a reduction in seedling responsiveness specifically to continuous far-red light (FRc), thereby suggesting a locus likely to be involved in phytochrome A (phyA) signal transduction. Using an insertionally tagged allele, we cloned the HFR1 gene and subsequently confirmed its identity with additional alleles derived from a directed genetic screen. HFR1 encodes a nuclear protein with strong similarity to the bHLH family of DNA-binding proteins but with an atypical basic region. In contrast to PIF3, a related bHLH protein previously shown to bind phyB, HFR1 did not bind either phyA or B. However, HFR1 did bind PIF3, suggesting heterodimerization, and both the HFR1/PIF3 complex and PIF3 homodimer bound preferentially to the Pfr form of both phytochromes. Thus, HFR1 may function to modulate phyA signaling via heterodimerization with PIF3. HFR1 mRNA is 30-fold more abundant in FRc than in continuous red light, suggesting a potential mechanistic basis for the specificity of HFR1 to phyA signaling.
11024045	Livin, a novel inhibitor of apoptosis protein family member.	A novel human inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family member termed Livin was identified, containing a single baculoviral IAP repeat (BIR) domain and a COOH-terminal RING finger domain. The mRNA for livin was not detectable by Northern blot in most normal adult tissues with the exception of the placenta, but was present in developmental tissues and in several cancer cell lines. Highest levels were observed in two melanoma-derived cell lines, G361 and SK-Mel29. Transfection of livin in HeLa cells resulted in protection from apoptosis induced by expression of FADD, Bax, RIP, RIP3, and DR6. Similar to other IAP family members, the anti-apoptotic activity of Livin was dependent on the BIR domain. Livin was also capable of inhibiting DEVD-like caspase activity triggered by tumor necrosis factor-alpha. In vitro binding studies demonstrated a direct interaction between Livin and the active form of the downstream caspases, caspase-3 and -7, that was dependent on the BIR domain of Livin. In addition, the unprocessed and cleaved forms of caspase-9 co-immunoprecipitated with Livin in vivo, and recombinant Livin could inhibit the activation of caspase-9 induced by Apaf-1, cytochrome c, and dATP. The subcellular distribution of the transfected Livin was analyzed by immunofluorescence. Both Livin and Survivin were expressed in the nucleus and in a filamentous pattern throughout the cytoplasm. In contrast to the apoptotic activity, the COOH-terminal RING domain mediated its subcellular localization patterning. Further studies found that transfection of an antisense construct against livin could trigger apoptosis specifically in cell lines expressing livin mRNA. This was associated with an increase in DNA fragmentation and in DEVD-like caspase activity. Thus, disruption of Livin may provide a strategy to induce apoptosis in certain cancer cells.
11030651	Localized Rac activation dynamics visualized in living cells.	Signaling proteins are thought to be tightly regulated spatially and temporally in order to generate specific and localized effects. For Rac and other small guanosine triphosphatases, binding to guanosine triphosphate leads to interaction with downstream targets and regulates subcellular localization. A method called FLAIR (fluorescence activation indicator for Rho proteins) was developed to quantify the spatio-temporal dynamics of the Rac1 nucleotide state in living cells. FLAIR revealed precise spatial control of growth factor-induced Rac activation, in membrane ruffles and in a gradient of activation at the leading edge of motile cells. FLAIR exemplifies a generally applicable approach for examining spatio-temporal control of protein activity.
11032805	A role for Ebi in neuronal cell cycle control.	Mutations in ebi were isolated as enhancers of an over-proliferation phenotype generated by elevated E2F/DP activity in the DROSOPHILA: eye. ebi alleles also strongly suppress a phenotype caused by the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21, restoring S phases in the second mitotic wave of the developing eye disk. ebi mutant embryos display ectopic S phases within the peripheral nervous system and central nervous system at a time in development when neuronal precursor cells would normally begin to differentiate. Consistent with this, we find that ebi mutants have a reduced capacity to undergo neuronal differentiation, that Ebi physically interacts with Sina and phyllopod, and that Ebi promotes Ttk88 degradation in vitro and in S2 cells. Ectopic expression of Ttk88 inhibited differentiation in embryos and eye discs; however, this block to differentiation was insufficient to promote S phase entry in either of the situations where ebi mutations gave this effect. We conclude that Ebi has two distinct functions; it promotes the degradation of a repressor of neuronal differentiation (Ttk88), and has a second independent function that limits S phase entry.
11034606	FIST/HIPK3: a Fas/FADD-interacting serine/threonine kinase that induces FADD phosphorylation and inhibits fas-mediated Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase activation.	Fas is a cell surface death receptor that signals apoptosis. Several proteins have been identified that bind to the cytoplasmic death domain of Fas. Fas-associated death domain (FADD), which couples Fas to procaspase-8, and Daxx, which couples Fas to the Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase pathway, bind independently to the Fas death domain. We have identified a 130-kD kinase designated Fas-interacting serine/threonine kinase/homeodomain-interacting protein kinase (FIST/HIPK3) as a novel Fas-interacting protein. Binding to Fas is mediated by a conserved sequence in the COOH terminus of the protein. FIST/HIPK3 is widely expressed in mammalian tissues and is localized both in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm. In transfected cell lines, FIST/HIPK3 causes FADD phosphorylation, thereby promoting FIST/HIPK3-FADD-Fas interaction. Although Fas ligand-induced activation of Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase is impaired by overexpressed active FIST/HIPK3, cell death is not affected. These results suggest that Fas-associated FIST/HIPK3 modulates one of the two major signaling pathways of Fas.
11035039	The ectodermal dysplasia receptor activates the nuclear factor-kappaB, JNK, and cell death pathways and binds to ectodysplasin A.	The ectodermal dysplasia receptor (EDAR) is a recently isolated member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family that has been shown to play a key role in the process of ectodermal differentiation. We present evidence that EDAR is capable of activating the nuclear factor-kappaB, JNK, and caspase-independent cell death pathways and that these activities are impaired in mutants lacking its death domain or those associated with anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia and the downless phenotype. Although EDAR possesses a death domain, it did not interact with the death domain-containing adaptor proteins TRADD and FADD. EDAR successfully interacted with various TRAF family members; however, a dominant-negative mutant of TRAF2 was incapable of blocking EDAR-induced nuclear factor-kappaB or JNK activation. Collectively, the above results suggest that EDAR utilizes a novel signal transduction pathway. Finally, ectodysplasin A can physically interact with the extracellular domain of EDAR and thus represents its biological ligand.
11036079	Hsp90 regulates p50(cdc37) function during the biogenesis of the activeconformation of the heme-regulated eIF2 alpha kinase.	Recent studies indicate that p50(cdc37) facilitates Hsp90-mediated biogenesis of certain protein kinases. In this report, we examined whether p50(cdc37) is required for the biogenesis of the heme-regulated eIF2 alpha kinase (HRI) in reticulocyte lysate. p50(cdc37) interacted with nascent HRI co-translationally and this interaction persisted during the maturation and activation of HRI. p50(cdc37) stimulated HRI's activation in response to heme deficiency, but did not activate HRI per se. p50(cdc37) function was specific to immature and inactive forms of the kinase. Analysis of mutant Cdc37 gene products indicated that the N-terminal portion of p50(cdc37) interacted with immature HRI, but not with Hsp90, while the C-terminal portion of p50(cdc37) interacted with Hsp90. The Hsp90-specific inhibitor geldanamycin disrupted the ability of both Hsp90 and p50(cdc37) to bind HRI and promote its activation, but did not disrupt the native association of p50(cdc37) with Hsp90. A C-terminal truncated mutant of p50(cdc37) inhibited HRI's activation, prevented the interaction of Hsp90 with HRI, and bound to HRI irrespective of geldanamycin treatment. Additionally, native complexes of HRI with p50(cdc37) were detected in cultured K562 erythroleukemia cells. These results suggest that p50(cdc37) provides an activity essential to HRI biogenesis via a process regulated by nucleotide-mediated conformational switching of its partner Hsp90.
11038172	Indications for a novel muscular dystrophy pathway. gamma-filamin, the muscle-specific filamin isoform, interacts with myotilin.	gamma-Filamin, also called ABP-L, is a filamin isoform that is specifically expressed in striated muscles, where it is predominantly localized in myofibrillar Z-discs. A minor fraction of the protein shows subsarcolemmal localization. Although gamma-filamin has the same overall structure as the two other known isoforms, it is the only isoform that carries a unique insertion in its immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domain 20. Sequencing of the genomic region encoding this part of the molecule shows that this insert is encoded by an extra exon. Transient transfections of the insert-bearing domain in skeletal muscle cells and cardiomyocytes show that this single domain is sufficient for targeting to developing and mature Z-discs. The yeast two-hybrid method was used to identify possible binding partners for the insert-bearing Ig-like domain 20 of gamma-filamin. The two Ig-like domains of the recently described alpha-actinin-binding Z-disc protein myotilin were found to interact directly with this filamin domain, indicating that the amino-terminal end of gamma-filamin may be indirectly anchored to alpha-actinin in the Z-disc via myotilin. Since defects in the myotilin gene were recently reported to cause a form of autosomal dominant limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, our findings provide a further contribution to the molecular understanding of this disease.
11069931	The products of the Drosophila stoned locus interact with synaptic vesicles via synaptotagmin.	The stoned locus of Drosophila melanogaster encodes two novel proteins, stonedA (STNA) and stonedB (STNB), both of which are expressed in the nervous system. Flies with defects at the stoned locus have abnormal behavior and altered synaptic transmission. Genetic interactions, in particular with the shibire (dynamin) mutation, indicated a presynaptic function for stoned and suggested an involvement in vesicle cycling. Immunological studies revealed colocalization of the stoned proteins at the neuromuscular junction with the integral synaptic vesicle protein synaptotagmin (SYT). We show here that stoned interacts genetically with synaptotagmin to produce a lethal phenotype. The STNB protein is found by co-immunoprecipitation to be associated with synaptic vesicles, and glutathione S-transferase pull-downs demonstrate an in vitro interaction between the micro2-homology domain of STNB and the C2B domain of the SYTI isoform. The STNA protein is also found in association with vesicles, and it too exhibits an in vitro association with SYTI. However, we find that the bulk of STNA is in a nonmembranous fraction. By using the shibire mutant to block endocytosis, STNB is shown to be present on some synaptic vesicles before exocytosis. However, STNB is not associated with all synaptic vesicles. We hypothesize that STNB specifies a subset of synaptic vesicles with a role in the synaptic vesicle cycle that is yet to be determined.
11084335	ML-IAP, a novel inhibitor of apoptosis that is preferentially expressed in human melanomas.	BACKGROUND: Inhibitors of apoptosis (IAPs) are a family of cell death inhibitors found in viruses and metazoans. All IAPs have at least one baculovirus IAP repeat (BIR) motif that is essential for their anti-apoptotic activity. IAPs physically interact with a variety of pro-apoptotic proteins and inhibit apoptosis induced by diverse stimuli. This allows them to function as sensors and inhibitors of death signals that emanate from a variety of pathways. RESULTS: Here we report the characterization of ML-IAP, a novel human IAP that contains a single BIR and RING finger motif. ML-IAP is a powerful inhibitor of apoptosis induced by death receptors and chemotherapeutic agents, probably functioning as a direct inhibitor of downstream effector caspases. Modeling studies of the structure of the BIR domain revealed it to closely resemble the fold determined for the BIR2 domain of X-IAP. Deletion and mutational analysis demonstrated that integrity of the BIR domain was required for anti-apoptotic function. Tissue survey analysis showed expression in a number of embryonic tissues and tumor cell lines. In particular, the majority of melanoma cell lines expressed high levels of ML-IAP in contrast to primary melanocytes, which expressed undetectable levels. These melanoma cells were significantly more resistant to drug-induced apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: ML-IAP, a novel human IAP, inhibits apoptosis induced by death receptors and chemotherapeutic agents. The BIR of ML-IAP possesses an evolutionarily conserved fold that is necessary for anti-apoptotic activity. Elevated expression of ML-IAP renders melanoma cells resistant to apoptotic stimuli and thereby potentially contributes to the pathogenesis of this malignancy.
11087867	A computationally directed screen identifying interacting coiled coils from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Computational methods can frequently identify protein-interaction motifs in otherwise uncharacterized open reading frames. However, the identification of candidate ligands for these motifs (e.g., so that partnering can be determined experimentally in a directed manner) is often beyond the scope of current computational capabilities. One exception is provided by the coiled-coil interaction motif, which consists of two or more alpha helices that wrap around each other: the ligands for coiled-coil sequences are generally other coiled-coil sequences, thereby greatly simplifying the motif/ligand recognition problem. Here, we describe a two-step approach to identifying protein-protein interactions mediated by two-stranded coiled coils that occur in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Coiled coils from the yeast genome are first predicted computationally, by using the multicoil program, and associations between coiled coils are then determined experimentally by using the yeast two-hybrid assay. We report 213 unique interactions between 162 putative coiled-coil sequences. We evaluate the resulting interactions, focusing on associations identified between components of the spindle pole body (the yeast centrosome).
11089975	Functional interaction of phytochrome B and cryptochrome 2.	Light is a crucial environmental signal that controls many photomorphogenic and circadian responses in plants. Perception and transduction of light is achieved by at least two principal groups of photoreceptors, phytochromes and cryptochromes. Phytochromes are red/far-red light-absorbing receptors encoded by a gene family of five members (phyA to phyE) in Arabidopsis. Cryptochrome 1 (cry1), cryptochrome 2 (cry2) and phototropin are the blue/ultraviolet-A light receptors that have been characterized in Arabidopsis. Previous studies showed that modulation of many physiological responses in plants is achieved by genetic interactions between different photoreceptors; however, little is known about the nature of these interactions and their roles in the signal transduction pathway. Here we show the genetic interaction that occurs between the Arabidopsis photoreceptors phyB and cry2 in the control of flowering time, hypocotyl elongation and circadian period by the clock. PhyB interacts directly with cry2 as observed in co-immunoprecipitation experiments with transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing cry2. Using fluorescent resonance energy transfer microscopy, we show that phyB and cry2 interact in nuclear speckles that are formed in a light-dependent fashion.
11090627	Structure of the TPR domain of p67phox in complex with Rac.GTP.	p67phox is an essential part of the NADPH oxidase, a multiprotein enzyme complex that produces superoxide ions in response to microbial infection. Binding of the small GTPase Rac to p67phox is a key step in the assembly of the active enzyme complex. The structure of Rac.GTP bound to the N-terminal TPR (tetratricopeptide repeat) domain of p67phox reveals a novel mode of Rho family/effector interaction and explains the basis of GTPase specificity. Complex formation is largely mediated by an insertion between two TPR motifs, suggesting an unsuspected versatility of TPR domains in target recognition and in their more general role as scaffolds for the assembly of multiprotein complexes.
11114524	Interaction of the Arabidopsis polycomb group proteins FIE and MEA mediates their common phenotypes.	Genes of the FERTILISATION INDEPENDENT SEED (FIS) class regulate cell proliferation during reproductive development in Arabidopsis [1-5]. The FIS genes FERTILISATION INDEPENDENT ENDOSPERM (FIE) and MEDEA (MEA) encode homologs of animal Polycomb group (Pc-G) proteins, transcriptional regulators that modify chromatin structure and are thought to form multimeric complexes [3-11]. To test whether similarities in fis mutant phenotypes reflect interactions between their protein products, we characterised FIE RNA and protein localisation in vivo, and FIE protein interactions in yeast and in vitro. Expression of FIE mRNA overlaps with that of MEA during embryo sac and seed development and is unaffected in mea mutants. Results from the yeast two-hybrid system and an in vitro pull-down assay indicate that MEA and FIE proteins interact. The relevance of this interaction in vivo is supported by the finding that FIE and MEA co-localise in the nucleus in transfected plant cells. Interaction of MEA and FIE is mediated by the amino-terminal region of MEA. Despite sequence divergence in this domain, MEA can interact with its corresponding animal partner Extrasexcombs (ESC) in the yeast two-hybrid system. We conclude that FIE and MEA act together as part of a multimeric complex and that this accounts for the similarities in mutant phenotypes. We propose that an ancient mechanism for chromatin modification has been independently recruited to different developmental processes in the two kingdoms.
11124807	Direct protein-protein interaction between the intracellular domain of TRA-2 and the transcription factor TRA-1A modulates feminizing activity in C. elegans.	In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, the zinc finger transcriptional regulator TRA-1A directs XX somatic cells to adopt female fates. The membrane protein TRA-2A indirectly activates TRA-1A by binding and inhibiting a masculinizing protein, FEM-3. Here we report that a part of the intracellular domain of TRA-2A, distinct from the FEM-3 binding region, directly binds TRA-1A. Overproduction of this TRA-1A-binding region has tra-1-dependent feminizing activity in somatic tissues, indicating that the interaction enhances TRA-1A activity. Consistent with this hypothesis, we show that tra-2(mx) mutations, which weakly masculinize somatic tissues, disrupt the TRA-2/TRA-1A interaction. Paradoxically, tra-2(mx) mutations feminize the XX germ line, as do tra-1 mutations mapping to the TRA-2 binding domain. We propose that these mutations render tra-2 insensitive to a negative regulator in the XX germ line, and we speculate that this regulator targets the TRA-2/TRA-1 complex. The intracellular domain of TRA-2A is likely to be produced as a soluble protein in vivo through proteolytic cleavage of TRA-2A or through translation of an XX germ line-specific mRNA. We further show that tagged derivatives of the intracellular domain of TRA-2 localize to the nucleus, supporting the hypothesis that this domain is capable of modulating TRA-1A activity in a manner reminiscent of Notch and Su(H).
11134024	A novel adapter protein employs a phosphotyrosine binding domain and exceptionally basic N-terminal domains to capture and localize an atypical protein kinase C: characterization of Caenorhabditis elegans C kinase adapter 1, a protein that avidly binds protein kinase C3.	Atypical protein kinase C isoforms (aPKCs) transmit regulatory signals to effector proteins located in the cytoplasm, nucleus, cytoskeleton, and membranes. Mechanisms by which aPKCs encounter and control effector proteins in various microenvironments are poorly understood. By using a protein interaction screen, we discovered two novel proteins that adapt a Caenorhabditis elegans aPKC (PKC3) for specialized (localized) functions; protein kinase C adapter 1 (CKA1, 593 amino acids) and CKA1S (549 amino acids) are derived from a unique mRNA by alternative utilization of two translation initiation codons. CKA1S and CKA1 are routed to the cell periphery by exceptionally basic N-terminal regions that include classical phosphorylation site domains (PSDs). Tethering of PKC3 is mediated by a segment of CKA1 that constitutes a phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain. Two aromatic amino acids (Phe(175) and Phe(221)) are indispensable for creation of a PKC3-binding surface and/or stabilization of CKA1.aPKC complexes. Patterns of CKA1 gene promoter activity and CKA1/CKA1S protein localization in vivo overlap with patterns established for PKC3 expression and distribution. Transfection experiments demonstrated that CKA1/CKA1S sequesters PKC3 in intact cells. Structural information in CKA1/CKA1S enables delivery of adapters to the lateral plasma membrane surface (near tight junctions) in polarized epithelial cells. Thus, a PTB domain and PSDs collaborate in a novel fashion in CKA1/CKA1S to enable tethering and targeting of PKC3. Avid ligation of a PKC isoform is a previously unappreciated function for a PTB module.
11134025	Structural properties and mechanisms that govern association of C kinase adapter 1 with protein kinase C3 and the cell periphery.	Association of an atypical protein kinase C (aPKC) with an adapter protein can affect the location, activity, substrate specificity, and physiological role of the phosphotransferase. Knowledge of mechanisms that govern formation and intracellular targeting of aPKC.adapter protein complexes is limited. Caenorhabditis elegans protein kinase C adapter proteins (CKA1 and CKA1S) bind and target aPKCs and provide prototypes for mechanistic analysis. CKA1 binds an aPKC (PKC3) via a phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain. A distinct, Arg/Lys-rich N-terminal region targets CKA1 to the cell periphery. We discovered that a short segment ((212)GGIDNGAFHEHEI(224)) of the V(2) (linker) region of PKC3 creates a binding surface that interacts with the PTB domain of CKA1/CKA1S. The docking domain of PKC3 differs from classical PTB ligands by the absence of Tyr and Pro. Substitution of Ile(214), Asn(216), or Phe(219) with Ala abrogates binding of PKC3 with CKA1; these residues cooperatively configure a docking site that complements an apolar surface of the CKA1 PTB domain. Phosphorylation site domains (PSD1, residues 11-25; PSD2, residues 61-77) in CKA1 route the adapter (and tethered PKC3) to the cell periphery. Phosphorylation of Ser(17) and Ser(65) in PSDs 1 and 2 elicits translocation of CKA1 from the cell surface to cytoplasm. Activities of DAG-stimulated PKCs and opposing protein Ser/Thr phosphatases can dynamically regulate the distribution of adapter protein between the cell periphery and cytoplasm.
11157979	Two distinct Vps34 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase complexes function in autophagy and carboxypeptidase Y sorting in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Vps30p/Apg6p is required for both autophagy and sorting of carboxypeptidase Y (CPY). Although Vps30p is known to interact with Apg14p, its precise role remains unclear. We found that two proteins copurify with Vps30p. They were identified by mass spectrometry to be Vps38p and Vps34p, a phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) 3-kinase. Vps34p, Vps38p, Apg14p, and Vps15p, an activator of Vps34p, were coimmunoprecipitated with Vps30p. These results indicate that Vps30p functions as a subunit of a Vps34 PtdIns 3-kinase complex(es). Phenotypic analyses indicated that Apg14p and Vps38p are each required for autophagy and CPY sorting, respectively, whereas Vps30p, Vps34p, and Vps15p are required for both processes. Coimmunoprecipitation using anti-Apg14p and anti-Vps38p antibodies and pull-down experiments showed that two distinct Vps34 PtdIns 3-kinase complexes exist: one, containing Vps15p, Vps30p, and Apg14p, functions in autophagy and the other containing Vps15p, Vps30p, and Vps38p functions in CPY sorting. The vps34 and vps15 mutants displayed additional phenotypes such as defects in transport of proteinase A and proteinase B, implying the existence of another PtdIns 3-kinase complex(es). We propose that multiple Vps34p-Vps15p complexes associated with specific regulatory proteins might fulfill their membrane trafficking events at different sites.
11197326	Two rice MADS domain proteins interact with OsMADS1.	OsMADS1 is a MADS box gene controlling flower development in rice. In order to learn more about the function of OsMADS1, we searched for cellular proteins interacting with OsMADS1 employing the yeast two-hybrid system. Two novel proteins with MADS domains, which were named OsMADS14 and OsMADS15, were isolated from a rice cDNA library. OsMADS14 and -15 are highly homologous to the maize MADS box gene ZAP1 which is an orthologue of the floral homeotic gene APETALA1 (AP1). Interactions among the three MADS domain proteins were confirmed by in vitro experiments using GST-fused OsMADS1 expressed in Escherichia coli and in vitro translated proteins of OsMADS14 and -15. We determined which domains in OsMADS1, -14, and -15 were required for protein-protein interaction employing the two-hybrid system and pull-down experiments. While the K domain was essential for protein-protein interaction, a region preceded by the K domain augmented this interaction. Interestingly, the C-terminal region of OsMADS1 functioned as a transcriptional activation domain in yeast and mammalian cells, while, on the other hand, the C domains of OsMADS14 and -15 exhibited only very weak transcriptional activator functionality, if any at all.
11207560	CD44 binds to the Shigella IpaB protein and participates in bacterial invasion of epithelial cells.	Shigella entry into epithelial cells is characterized by a transient reorganization of the host cell cytoskeleton at the site of bacterial interaction with the cell membrane, which leads to bacterial engulfment in a macropinocytic process. Using affinity chromatography on HeLa cell extracts, we show here that the hyaluronan receptor CD44 associates with IpaB, a Shigella protein that is secreted upon cell contact. Overlay and solid-phase assays indicated that IpaB binds directly to the extracellular domain of CD44; binding is saturable and inhibitable, with a half-maximal inhibitory concentration of 175 nM. Immunoprecipitation experiments showed that IpaB associates with CD44 during Shigella entry. CD44 is recruited at bacterial entry sites and localizes at the plasma membrane of cellular extensions induced by Shigella. Pretreatment of cells with an anti-CD44 monoclonal antibody resulted in inhibition of Shigella-induced cytoskeletal reorganization, as well as inhibition of bacterial entry, whereas transfection of CD44 in cells that are deficient for CD44 results in increased bacterial binding to cells and internalization. The IpaB-CD44 interaction appears to be required for Shigella invasion by initiating the early steps of the entry process.
11226162	Identification of a structural motif that confers specific interaction with the WD40 repeat domain of Arabidopsis COP1.	Arabidopsis COP1 is a photomorphogenesis repressor capable of directly interacting with the photomorphogenesis-promoting factor HY5. This interaction between HY5 and COP1 results in targeted deg radation of HY5 by the 26S proteasome. Here we characterized the WD40 repeat domain-mediated interactions of COP1 with HY5 and two new proteins. Mutational analysis of those interactive partners revealed a conserved motif responsible for the interaction with the WD40 domain. This novel motif, with the core sequence V-P-E/D-&phi;-G (&phi; = hydrophobic residue) in conjunction with an upstream stretch of 4-5 negatively charged residues, interacts with a defined surface area of the ss-propeller assembly of the COP1 WD40 repeat domain through both hydrophobic and ionic interactions. Several residues in the COP1 WD40 domain that are critical for the interaction with this motif have been revealed. The fact that point mutations either in the COP1 WD40 domain or in the HY5 motif that abolish the interaction between COP1 and HY5 in yeast result in a dramatic reduction of HY5 degradation in transgenic plants validates the biological significance of this defined interaction.
11248039	Human fatty acid synthase: role of interdomain in the formation of catalytically active synthase dimer.	The human and animal fatty acid synthases are dimers of two identical multifunctional proteins (M(r) 272,000) arranged in an antiparallel configuration. This arrangement generates two active centers for fatty acid synthesis separated by interdomain (ID) regions and predicts that two appropriate halves of the monomer should be able to reconstitute an active fatty acid synthesizing center. This prediction was confirmed by the reconstitution of the synthase active center by using two heterologously expressed halves of the monomer protein. Each of these recombinant halves of synthase monomer contains half of the ID regions. We show here that the fatty acid synthase activity could not be reconstituted when the ID sequences present in the two recombinant halves are deleted, suggesting that these ID sequences are essential for fatty acid synthase dimer formation. Further, we confirm that the ID sequences are the only regions of fatty acid synthase monomers that showed significant dimer formation, by using the yeast two-hybrid system. These results are consistent with the proposal that the ID region, which has no known catalytic activity, associates readily and holds together the two dynamic active centers of the fatty acid synthase dimer, therefore playing an important role in the architecture of catalytically active fatty acid synthase.
11250154	Interaction of the virulence protein VirF of Agrobacterium tumefaciens with plant homologs of the yeast Skp1 protein.	The infection of plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens leads to the formation of crown gall tumors due to the transfer of a nucleoprotein complex into plant cells that is mediated by the virulence (vir) region-encoded transport system (reviewed in [1-5]). In addition, A. tumefaciens secretes the Vir proteins, VirE2 and VirF, directly into plant cells via the same VirB/VirD4 transport system [6], and both assist there in the transformation of normal cells into tumor cells. The function of the 22 kDa VirF protein is not clear. Deletion of the virF gene in A. tumefaciens leads to diminished virulence [7, 8] and can be complemented by the expression of the virF gene in the host plant. This finding indicates that VirF functions within the plant cell [8]. Here, we report that the VirF protein is the first prokaryotic protein with an F box by which it can interact with plant homologs of the yeast Skp1 protein. The presence of the F box turned out to be essential for the biological function of VirF. F box proteins and Skp1p are both subunits of a class of E3 ubiquitin ligases referred to as SCF complexes. Thus, VirF may be involved in the targeted proteolysis of specific host proteins in early stages of the transformation process.
11259580	PSF is a novel corepressor that mediates its effect through Sin3A and the DNA binding domain of nuclear hormone receptors.	Members of the type II nuclear hormone receptor subfamily (e.g., thyroid hormone receptors [TRs], retinoic acid receptors, retinoid X receptors [RXRs], vitamin D receptor, and the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors) bind to their response sequences with or without ligand. In the absence of ligand, these DNA-bound receptors mediate different degrees of repression or silencing of gene expression which is thought to result from the association of their ligand binding domains (LBDs) with corepressors. Two related corepressors, N-CoR and SMRT, interact to various degrees with the LBDs of these type II receptors in the absence of their cognate ligands. N-CoR and SMRT have been proposed to act by recruiting class I histone deacetylases (HDAC I) through an association with Sin3, although they have also been shown to recruit class II HDACs through a Sin3-independent mechanism. In this study, we used a biochemical approach to identify novel nuclear factors that interact with unliganded full-length TR and RXR. We found that the DNA binding domains (DBDs) of TR and RXR associate with two proteins which we identified as PSF (polypyrimidine tract-binding protein-associated splicing factor) and NonO/p54(nrb). Our studies indicate that PSF is a novel repressor which interacts with Sin3A and mediates silencing through the recruitment of HDACs to the receptor DBD. In vivo studies with TR showed that although N-CoR fully dissociates in the presence of ligand, the levels of TR-bound PSF and Sin3A appear to remain unchanged, indicating that Sin3A can be recruited to the receptor independent of N-CoR or SMRT. RXR was not detected to bind N-CoR although it bound PSF and Sin3A as effectively as TR, and this association with RXR did not change with ligand. Our studies point to a novel PSF/Sin3-mediated pathway for nuclear hormone receptors, and possibly other transcription factors, which may fine-tune the transcriptional response as well as play an important role in mediating the repressive effects of those type II receptors which only weakly interact with N-CoR and SMRT.
11283256	Intermolecular and intramolecular interactions regulate catalytic activity of myotonic dystrophy kinase-related Cdc42-binding kinase alpha.	Myotonic dystrophy kinase-related Cdc42-binding kinase (MRCK) is a Cdc42-binding serine/threonine kinase with multiple functional domains. We had previously shown MRCKalpha to be implicated in Cdc42-mediated peripheral actin formation and neurite outgrowth in HeLa and PC12 cells, respectively. Here we demonstrate that native MRCK exists in high-molecular-weight complexes. We further show that the three independent coiled-coil (CC) domains and the N-terminal region preceding the kinase domain are responsible for intermolecular interactions leading to MRCKalpha multimerization. N terminus-mediated dimerization and consequent transautophosphorylation are critical processes regulating MRCKalpha catalytic activities. A region containing the two distal CC domains (CC2 and CC3; residues 658 to 930) was found to interact intramolecularly with the kinase domain and negatively regulates its activity. Its deletion also resulted in an active kinase, confirming a negative autoregulatory role. We provide evidence that the N terminus-mediated dimerization and activation of MRCK and the negative autoregulatory kinase-distal CC interaction are two mutually exclusive events that tightly regulate the catalytic state of the kinase. Disruption of this interaction by a mutant kinase domain resulted in increased kinase activity. MRCK kinase activity was also elevated when cells were treated with phorbol ester, which can interact directly with a cysteine-rich domain next to the distal CC domain. We therefore suggest that binding of phorbol ester to MRCK releases its autoinhibition, allowing N-terminal dimerization and subsequent kinase activation.
11287423	Targeting of an A kinase-anchoring protein, AKAP79, to an inwardly rectifying potassium channel, Kir2.1.	Protein kinase A (PKA) is targeted to discrete subcellular locations close to its intended substrates through interaction with A kinase-anchoring proteins (AKAPs). Ion channels represent a diverse and important group of kinase substrates, and it has been shown that membrane targeting of PKA through association with AKAPs facilitates PKA-mediated phosphorylation and regulation of several classes of ion channel. Here, we investigate the effect of AKAP79, a membrane-associated multivalent-anchoring protein, upon the function and modulation of the strong inwardly rectifying potassium channel, Kir2.1. Functionally, the presence of AKAP79 enhanced the response of Kir2.1 to elevated intracellular cAMP, suggesting a requirement for a pool of PKA anchored close to the channel. Antibodies directed against a hemagglutinin epitope tag on Kir2.1 coimmunoprecipitated AKAP79, indicating that the two proteins exist together in a complex within intact cells. In support of this, glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins of both the intracellular N and C domains of Kir2.1 isolated AKAP79 from cell lysates, while glutathione S-transferase alone failed to interact with AKAP79. Together, these findings suggest that AKAP79 associates directly with the Kir2.1 ion channel and may serve to anchor kinase enzymes in close proximity to key channel phosphorylation sites.
11297421	Apolipoprotein A-I directly interacts with amyloid precursor protein and inhibits A beta aggregation and toxicity.	Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is the source of the neurotoxic amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide associated with Alzheimer's disease. Apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), a constituent of high-density lipoprotein complexes, was identified by a yeast two-hybrid system as a strong and specific binding partner of full-length APP (APPfl). This association between apoA-I and APPfl was localized to the extracellular domain of APP (APPextra). Furthermore, the interaction between apoA-I and APPfl was confirmed by coprecipitation using recombinant epitope-tagged APPextra and purified apoA-I. Several functional domains have been identified in APPextra, and we focused on a possible interaction between apoA-1 and the pathologically important Abeta peptide, because APPextra contains the nontransmembrane domain of Abeta. The binding between apoA-I and Abeta was saturable (K(d) = 6 nM), specific, and reversible. APPextra also competed with apoA-I for binding to Abeta. Direct evidence for this interaction was obtained by the formation of an SDS-resistant Abeta-apoA-I complex in polyacrylamide gels. Competitive experiments with apolipoprotein E (isoforms E2 and E4) showed that apoA-I had a higher binding affinity for Abeta. We also found that apoA-I inhibited the beta-sheet formation of Abeta with a mean inhibitory concentration close to that of alpha2-macroglobulin. Finally, we demonstrated that apoA-I attenuated Abeta-induced cytotoxicity. These results suggest apoA-I binds to at least one extracellular domain of APP and has a functional role in controlling Abeta aggregation and toxicity.
11309418	Cvt9/Gsa9 functions in sequestering selective cytosolic cargo destined for the vacuole.	Three overlapping pathways mediate the transport of cytoplasmic material to the vacuole in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The cytoplasm to vacuole targeting (Cvt) pathway transports the vacuolar hydrolase, aminopeptidase I (API), whereas pexophagy mediates the delivery of excess peroxisomes for degradation. Both the Cvt and pexophagy pathways are selective processes that specifically recognize their cargo. In contrast, macroautophagy nonselectively transports bulk cytosol to the vacuole for recycling. Most of the import machinery characterized thus far is required for all three modes of transport. However, unique features of each pathway dictate the requirement for additional components that differentiate these pathways from one another, including at the step of specific cargo selection.We have identified Cvt9 and its Pichia pastoris counterpart Gsa9. In S. cerevisiae, Cvt9 is required for the selective delivery of precursor API (prAPI) to the vacuole by the Cvt pathway and the targeted degradation of peroxisomes by pexophagy. In P. pastoris, Gsa9 is required for glucose-induced pexophagy. Significantly, neither Cvt9 nor Gsa9 is required for starvation-induced nonselective transport of bulk cytoplasmic cargo by macroautophagy. The deletion of CVT9 destabilizes the binding of prAPI to the membrane and analysis of a cvt9 temperature-sensitive mutant supports a direct role of Cvt9 in transport vesicle formation. Cvt9 oligomers peripherally associate with a novel, perivacuolar membrane compartment and interact with Apg1, a Ser/Thr kinase essential for both the Cvt pathway and autophagy. In P. pastoris Gsa9 is recruited to concentrated regions on the vacuole membrane that contact peroxisomes in the process of being engulfed by pexophagy. These biochemical and morphological results demonstrate that Cvt9 and the P. pastoris homologue Gsa9 may function at the step of selective cargo sequestration.
11313484	Protein interactions of the MLL PHD fingers modulate MLL target gene regulation in human cells.	The PHD fingers of the human MLL and Drosophila trx proteins have strong amino acid sequence conservation but their function is unknown. We have determined that these fingers mediate homodimerization and binding of MLL to Cyp33, a nuclear cyclophilin. These two proteins interact in vitro and in vivo in mammalian cells and colocalize at specific nuclear subdomains. Overexpression of the Cyp33 protein in leukemia cells results in altered expression of HOX genes that are targets for regulation by MLL. These alterations are suppressed by cyclosporine and are not observed in cell lines that express a mutant MLL protein without PHD fingers. These results suggest that binding of Cyp33 to MLL modulates its effects on the expression of target genes.
11319236	Iron-sulfur cluster assembly: characterization of IscA and evidence for a specific and functional complex with ferredoxin.	The synthesis of iron-sulfur clusters in Escherichia coli is believed to require a complex protein machinery encoded by the isc (iron-sulfur cluster) operon. The product of one member of this operon, IscA, has been overexpressed, purified, and characterized. It can assemble an air-sensitive [2Fe-2S] cluster as shown by UV-visible and resonance Raman spectroscopy. The metal form but not the apoform of IscA binds ferredoxin, another member of the isc operon, selectively, allowing transfer of iron and sulfide from IscA to ferredoxin and formation of the [2Fe-2S] holoferredoxin. These results thus suggest that IscA is involved in ferredoxin cluster assembly and activation. This is an important function because a functional ferredoxin is required for maturation of other cellular Fe-S proteins.
11328876	A functional interaction of Ku with Werner exonuclease facilitates digestion of damaged DNA.	Werner syndrome (WS) is a premature aging disorder where the affected individuals appear much older than their chronological age. The single gene that is defective in WS encodes a protein (WRN) that has ATPase, helicase and 3'-->5' exonuclease activities. Our laboratory has recently uncovered a physical and functional interaction between WRN and the Ku heterodimer complex that functions in double-strand break repair and V(D)J recombination. Importantly, Ku specifically stimulates the exonuclease activity of WRN. We now report that Ku enables the Werner exonuclease to digest through regions of DNA containing 8-oxoadenine and 8-oxoguanine modifications, lesions that have previously been shown to block the exonuclease activity of WRN alone. These results indicate that Ku significantly alters the exonuclease function of WRN and suggest that the two proteins function concomitantly in a DNA damage processing pathway. In support of this notion we also observed co-localization of WRN and Ku, particularly after DNA damaging treatments.
11335720	Prenylated Rab acceptor protein is a receptor for prenylated small GTPases.	Localization of Ras and Ras-like proteins to the correct subcellular compartment is essential for these proteins to mediate their biological effects. Many members of the Ras superfamily (Ha-Ras, N-Ras, TC21, and RhoA) are prenylated in the cytoplasm and then transit through the endomembrane system on their way to the plasma membrane. The proteins that aid in the trafficking of the small GTPases have not been well characterized. We report here that prenylated Rab acceptor protein (PRA1), which others previously identified as a prenylation-dependent receptor for Rab proteins, also interacts with Ha-Ras, RhoA, TC21, and Rap1a. The interaction of these small GTPases with PRA1 requires their post-translational modification by prenylation. The prenylation-dependent association of PRA1 with multiple GTPases is conserved in evolution; the yeast PRA1 protein associates with both Ha-Ras and RhoA. Earlier studies reported the presence of PRA1 in the Golgi, and we show here that PRA1 co-localizes with Ha-Ras and RhoA in the Golgi compartment. We suggest that PRA1 acts as an escort protein for small GTPases by binding to the hydrophobic isoprenoid moieties of the small GTPases and facilitates their trafficking through the endomembrane system.
11342563	The second PDZ domain of INAD is a type I domain involved in binding to eye protein kinase C. Mutational analysis and naturally occurring variants.	INAD is a scaffolding protein containing five PSD95/dlg/zonular occludens-1 (PDZ) domains that tether NORPA (phospholipase Cbeta(4)), the TRP calcium channel, and eye-PKC in Drosophila photoreceptors. We previously showed that eye-PKC interacted with the second PDZ domain (PDZ2) of INAD. Sequence comparison with a prototypical type I PDZ domain predicts that PDZ2 is the best candidate among the five PDZ domains to recognize eye-PKC that contains a type I PDZ ligand, Ile-Thr-Ile-Ile, at its carboxyl terminus. Replacement of Ile(-3) in eye-PKC with charged residues resulted in a drastic reduction of the PDZ2 interaction. Substitution of a conserved His with Arg at the second alpha-helix of PDZ2 led to a reduced binding; however, a Leu replacement resulted in an enhanced eye-PKC association. We isolated and sequenced the InaD gene. The coding sequence of InaD contains nine exons spanning 3 kilobases. Translation of coding sequences from three wild-type alleles revealed three SNPs affecting residues, 282, 319, and 333 of INAD. These polymorphisms are localized in PDZ2. Interestingly, we found two of three PDZ2 variants displayed a greater affinity for eye-PKC. In summary, we evaluated the molecular basis of the eye-PKC and PDZ2 association by mutational analysis and concluded that PDZ2 of INAD is a type I domain important for the eye-PKC interaction.
11356188	Two KaiA-binding domains of cyanobacterial circadian clock protein KaiC.	kaiABC, a gene cluster, encodes KaiA, KaiB and KaiC proteins that are essential to circadian rhythms in the unicellular cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. strain PCC 7942. Kai proteins can interact with each other in all possible combinations. This study identified two KaiA-binding domains (C(KABD1) and C(KABD2)) in KaiC at corresponding regions of its duplicated structure. Clock mutations on the two domains and kaiA altered the strength of C(KABD)-KaiA interactions assayed by the yeast two-hybrid system. Thus, interaction between KaiA and KaiC through C(KABD1) and C(KABD2) is likely important for circadian timing in the cyanobacterium.
11359905	The corepressor mSin3a interacts with the proline-rich domain of p53 and protects p53 from proteasome-mediated degradation.	While the transactivation function of the tumor suppressor p53 is well understood, less is known about the transrepression functions of this protein. We have previously shown that p53 interacts with the corepressor protein mSin3a (hereafter designated Sin3) in vivo and that this interaction is critical for the ability of p53 to repress gene expression. In the present study, we demonstrate that expression of Sin3 results in posttranslational stabilization of both exogenous and endogenous p53, due to an inhibition of proteasome-mediated degradation of this protein. Stabilization of p53 by Sin3 requires the Sin3-binding domain, determined here to map to the proline-rich region of p53, from amino acids 61 to 75. The correlation between Sin3 binding and stabilization supports the hypothesis that this domain of p53 may normally be subject to a destabilizing influence. The finding that a synthetic mutant of p53 lacking the Sin3-binding domain has an increased half-life in cells, compared to wild-type p53, supports this premise. Interestingly, unlike retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein, MDMX, and p14(ARF), Sin3 stabilizes p53 in an MDM2-independent manner. The ability of Sin3 to stabilize p53 is consistent with the model whereby these two proteins must exist on a promoter for extended periods, in order for repression to be an effective mechanism of gene regulation. This model is consistent with our data indicating that, unlike the p300-p53 complex, the p53-Sin3 complex is immunologically detectable for prolonged periods following exposure of cells to agents of DNA damage.
11369516	Inhibition of protein synthesis by the T cell receptor-inducible human TDAG51 gene product.	The T cell death associated gene 51 (TDAG51) was shown to be required for T cell receptor (TCR)-dependent induction of Fas/Apo1/CD95 expression in a murine T cell hybridoma. Despite the absence of a nuclear localization sequence and a nucleic acid binding domain, it was suggested to be localized in the nucleus and to function as a transcription factor regulating Fas-expression. However, we demonstrate that the human (h)TDAG51 protein is localized in the cytoplasm and the nucleoli, suggesting a role in ribosome biogenesis and/or translation regulation. Indeed, it strongly inhibited translation of a luciferase mRNA in a reticulocyte translational extract. Furthermore, cotransfection of hTDAG51 and the luciferase gene into 293T cells resulted in a strong inhibition of luciferase mRNA translation. Our findings were further strengthened by isolating in a yeast two-hybrid screen three proteins which are involved in the regulation of translation. We speculate that hTDAG51 couples TCR signaling to inhibition of protein biosynthesis in activated T lymphocytes.
11374898	Cloning, mapping, and characterization of the human sorbin and SH3 domain containing 1 (SORBS1) gene: a protein associated with c-Abl during insulin signaling in the hepatoma cell line Hep3B.	SH3P12/CAP/ponsin, a gene product with a sorbin homology domain and three consecutive SH3 domains in the carboxy-terminus, has been isolated from murine adipocytes and identified as an important adaptor during insulin signaling. Here we describe the cloning, mapping, and expression of the human homologue, termed SORBS1 (sorbin and SH3 domain containing 1). Multiple transcripts of this gene with different mRNA isoforms were observed among different tissues. Here we report 13 alternatively spliced exons, which were ascertained from the full-length cDNA cloned in adipose, liver, and skeletal muscle tissues. Among the major isoforms, the shortest, 2223-bp, open reading frame (ORF) encodes a protein with a predicted molecular weight of 81.5 kDa, while the longest, 3879-bp, ORF encodes a protein of about 142.2 kDa. This gene was mapped to human chromosome 10q23.3-q24.1, which is a candidate region for insulin resistance found in Pima Indians. In human hepatoma Hep3B cells, SORBS1 was partly dissociated from the insulin receptor complex and bound to c-Abl protein upon insulin stimulation. This interaction with c-Abl was through the third SH3 domain and a possible conformational change of SORBS1 induced by insulin. Our data suggest that c-Abl oncoprotein via SORBS1 might play a role in the insulin signaling pathway.
11404095	Cloning and expression pattern of a novel PEBP2 beta-binding protein (charged amino acid rich leucine zipper-1[Crl-1]) in the mouse.	PEBP2 beta/Cbf beta is the beta subunit of PEBP2/Cbf, which has been demonstrated to have important biological activities in hematopoiesis and osteogenesis. However, PEBP2 beta is ubiquitously expressed, suggesting that PEBP2 has other additionally important physiological activities. In an effort to elucidate other possible functions for PEBP2, we have isolated a novel gene that encodes a PEBP2 beta-interacting protein from a mouse cDNA library. We have called this gene Crl-1 for charged amino acid rich leucine zipper-1 (Crl-1) because it is rich in charged amino acids and contains a putative leucine zipper region. Expression studies in a 17.5 days post-coitum mouse embryo demonstrated Crl-1 expression mainly in the olfactory bulb and cerebral cortex. Post-natally, Crl-1 expression was additionally observed in the cerebellar cortex with strong expression in the hippocampus. These findings show that this novel PEBP2 beta-interacting protein is expressed mainly in subsets of neuronal cells, suggesting that Crl-1 plays some role in the developing mouse brain.
11418127	CSN3 interacts with IKKgamma and inhibits TNF- but not IL-1-induced NF-kappaB activation.	The transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays a pivotal role in immune and inflammatory responses. Activation of NF-kappaB requires the activity of IKK, a kinase complex that contains two catalytic subunits, IKKalpha and IKKbeta, and a regulatory subunit IKKgamma. To understand how IKK activity is regulated, we searched for IKKgamma-interacting proteins by the yeast two-hybrid system. These screenings identified CSN3, a component of the COP9 signalsome, as a protein specifically interacting with IKKgamma. Overexpression of CSN3 inhibits NF-kappaB activation triggered by tumor necrosis factor (TNF), but not interleukin-1 (IL-1). Moreover, overexpression of CSN3 also inhibits NF-kappaB activation triggered by proteins involved in TNF signaling, including TNF-R1, TRAF2, RIP, and NIK, but not by TRAF6, a protein involved in IL-1 signaling. These data suggest that CSN3 is a specific negative regulator of TNF- but not IL-1-induced NF-kappaB activation pathways.
11425851	New roles for the Snp1 and Exo84 proteins in yeast pre-mRNA splicing.	The mammalian 70K protein, a component of the U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein involved in pre-mRNA splicing, interacts with a number of proteins important for regulating constitutive and alternative splicing. Similar proteins that interact with the yeast homolog of the 70K protein, Snp1p, have yet to be identified. We used the two-hybrid system to find four U1-Snp1 associating (Usa) proteins. Two of these proteins physically associate with Snp1p as assayed by coimmunoprecipitation. One is Prp8p, a known, essential spliceosomal component. This interaction suggests some novel functions for Snp1p and the U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein late in spliceosome development. The other, Exo84p, is a conserved subunit of the exocyst, an eight-protein complex functioning in secretion. We show here that Exo84p is also involved in pre-mRNA splicing. A temperature-sensitive exo84 mutation caused increased ratios of pre-mRNA to mRNA for the Rpl30 and actin transcripts in cells incubated at the non-permissive temperature. The mutation also led to a defect in splicing and prespliceosome formation in vitro; an indication that Exo84p has a direct role in splicing. The results elucidate a surprising link between splicing and secretion.
11427532	p53 Modulates the exonuclease activity of Werner syndrome protein.	Werner syndrome (WS) is characterized by the early onset of symptoms of premature aging, cancer, and genomic instability. The molecular basis of the defects is not understood but presumably relates to the DNA helicase and exonuclease activities of the protein encoded by the WRN gene that is mutated in the disease. The attenuation of p53-mediated apoptosis in WS cells and reported physical interaction between WRN and the tumor suppressor p53 suggest that p53 and WRN functionally interact in a pathway necessary for the normal cellular response. In this study, we have demonstrated that p53 inhibits the exonuclease activity of the purified full-length recombinant WRN protein. p53 did not have an effect on a truncated amino-terminal WRN fragment that retains exonuclease activity but lacks the physical interaction domain for p53 located in the carboxyl terminus. Two naturally occurring p53 mutants found in human cancer displayed a reduced ability to inhibit WRN exonuclease activity. In cells arrested in S phase with hydroxyurea, WRN exits the nucleolus and colocalizes with p53 in the nucleoplasm. The regulation of WRN function by p53 is likely to play an important role in the maintenance of genomic integrity and prevention of cancer and other clinical symptoms associated with WS.
11439126	APETALA1 and SEPALLATA3 interact to promote flower development.	In Arabidopsis, the closely related APETALA1 (AP1) and CAULIFLOWER (CAL) MADS-box genes share overlapping roles in promoting flower meristem identity. Later in flower development, the AP1 gene is required for normal development of sepals and petals. Studies of MADS-domain proteins in diverse species have shown that they often function as heterodimers or in larger ternary complexes, suggesting that additional proteins may interact with AP1 and CAL during flower development. To identify proteins that may interact with AP1 and CAL, we used the yeast two-hybrid assay. Among the five MADS-box genes identified in this screen, the SEPALLATA3 (SEP3) gene was chosen for further study. Mutations in the SEP3 gene, as well as SEP3 antisense plants that have a reduction in SEP3 RNA, display phenotypes that closely resemble intermediate alleles of AP1. Furthermore, the early flowering phenotype of plants constitutively expressing AP1 is significantly enhanced by constitutive SEP3 expression. Taken together, these studies suggest that SEP3 interacts with AP1 to promote normal flower development.
11442055	NIMIN-1, NIMIN-2 and NIMIN-3, members of a novel family of proteins from Arabidopsis that interact with NPR1/NIM1, a key regulator of systemic acquired resistance in plants.	NPR1/NIM1 is a key regulator of systemic acquired resistance (SAR) in Arabidopsis. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have identified three novel genes, NIMIN-1, NIMIN-2 and NIMIN-3 (NIMIN for NIM1-interacting) that encode structurally related proteins interacting physically with NPR1/NIM1. NIMIN-1 and NIMIN-2 both bind strongly to NPR1/NIM1 via a common binding motif interacting with the C-terminal moiety of NPR1/NIM1, whereas NIMIN-3 interacts with NPR1/NIM1 via the N-terminal part of NPR1/NIM1. In addition, NIMIN-1, NIMIN-2, and NIMIN-3 are able to interact via NPR1/NIM1 with basic leucine zipper transcription factors of the TGA family in a yeast tri-hybrid system. A mutant protein of NPR1/NIM1, npr1-2, which has been shown to be severely impaired in induction of SAR gene expression, failed to bind the NIMIN proteins. The NIMIN genes are expressed in Arabidopsis plants in response to SAR-inducing treatments, and the NIMIN proteins, like NPR1/NIM1, carry functional nuclear localization signals as revealed by expression of fusion proteins in yeast and in transgenic plants. Taken together, these data indicate that the NIMIN proteins, via physical interaction with NPR1/NIM1, are part of the signal transduction pathway leading to SAR gene expression in Arabidopsis.
11454741	Human stoned B interacts with AP-2 and synaptotagmin and facilitates clathrin-coated vesicle uncoating.	Synaptic vesicle biogenesis involves the recycling of synaptic vesicle components by clathrin-mediated endocytosis from the presynaptic membrane. stoned B, a protein encoded by the stoned locus in Drosophila melanogaster has been shown to regulate vesicle recycling by interacting with synaptotagmin. We report here the identification and characterization of a human homolog of stoned B (hStnB). Human stoned B is a brain-specific protein which co-enriches with other endocytic proteins such as AP-2 in a crude synaptic vesicle fraction and at nerve terminals. A domain with homology to the medium chain of adaptor complexes binds directly to both AP-2 and synaptotagmin and competes with AP-2 for the same binding site within synaptotagmin. Finally we show that the mu 2 homology domain of hStnB stimulates the uncoating of both clathrin and AP-2 adaptors from clathrin-coated vesicles. We hypothesize that hStnB regulates synaptic vesicle recycling by facilitating vesicle uncoating.
11461903	The phytochrome A-specific signaling intermediate SPA1 interacts directly with COP1, a constitutive repressor of light signaling in Arabidopsis.	SPA1 is a phytochrome A (phyA)-specific signaling intermediate that acts as a light-dependent repressor of photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis seedlings. It contains a WD-repeat domain that shows high sequence similarity to the WD-repeat region of the constitutive repressor of light signaling, COP1. Here, using yeast two-hybrid and in vitro interaction assays, we show that SPA1 strongly and selectively binds to COP1. Domain mapping studies indicate that the putative coiled-coil domain of SPA1 is necessary and sufficient for binding to COP1. Conversely, similar deletion analyses of the COP1 protein suggest that SPA1 interacts with the presumed coiled-coil domain of COP1. To further investigate SPA1 function in the phyA signaling pathway, we tested whether SPA1, like COP1, mediates changes in gene expression in response to light. We show that spa1 mutations increase the photoresponsiveness of certain light-regulated genes within 2 h of light treatment. Taken together, the results suggest that SPA1 may function to link the phytochrome A-specific branch of the light signaling pathway to COP1. Hence, our data provide molecular support for the hypothesis that COP1 is a convergence point for upstream signaling pathways dedicated to individual photoreceptors.
11463333	Isolation and characterization of two novel A20-like proteins.	The transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) plays a pivotal role in inflammatory processes through induction of adhesion molecules and chemokines. The zinc finger molecule A20 is an important negative regulator of NF-kappa B. The mechanism utilized by A20 is not fully understood, but A20 has been shown to bind to tumour-necrosis-factor-receptor-associated factor (TRAF) molecules, which are necessary for pro-inflammatory cytokine signalling. We report two novel genes, Cezanne (cellular zinc finger anti-NF-kappa B) and TRABID (TRAF-binding domain), with sequence similarity to A20. Co-immunoprecipitation studies indicated that TRAF6 was able to interact with both Cezanne and TRABID. In contrast, reporter gene experiments revealed a specific ability of Cezanne to down-regulate NF-kappa B. It is likely, therefore, that Cezanne participates in the regulation of inflammatory processes.
11463392	PUMA, a novel proapoptotic gene, is induced by p53.	The p53 tumor-suppressor protein functions as a transcriptional activator, and several p53-inducible genes that play a role in the induction of apoptosis in response to p53 have been described. We have identified a novel gene named PUMA (p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis) as a target for activation by p53. This gene encodes two BH3 domain-containing proteins (PUMA-alpha and PUMA-beta) that are induced in cells following p53 activation. PUMA-alpha and PUMA-beta show similar activities; they bind to Bcl-2, localize to the mitochondria to induce cytochrome c release, and activate the rapid induction of programmed cell death. Antisense inhibition of PUMA expression reduced the apoptotic response to p53, and PUMA is likely to play a role in mediating p53-induced cell death through the cytochrome c/Apaf-1-dependent pathway.
11493912	Structure of the Ku heterodimer bound to DNA and its implications for double-strand break repair.	The Ku heterodimer (Ku70 and Ku80 subunits) contributes to genomic integrity through its ability to bind DNA double-strand breaks and facilitate repair by the non-homologous end-joining pathway. The crystal structure of the human Ku heterodimer was determined both alone and bound to a 55-nucleotide DNA element at 2.7 and 2.5 A resolution, respectively. Ku70 and Ku80 share a common topology and form a dyad-symmetrical molecule with a preformed ring that encircles duplex DNA. The binding site can cradle two full turns of DNA while encircling only the central 3-4 base pairs (bp). Ku makes no contacts with DNA bases and few with the sugar-phosphate backbone, but it fits sterically to major and minor groove contours so as to position the DNA helix in a defined path through the protein ring. These features seem well designed to structurally support broken DNA ends and to bring the DNA helix into phase across the junction during end processing and ligation.
11502761	The AP2 binding site of synaptotagmin 1 is not an internalization signal but a regulator of endocytosis.	One characteristic linking members of the synaptotagmin family to endocytosis is their ability to bind the heterotetrameric AP2 complex via their C2B domain. By using CD4/synaptotagmin 1 chimeras, we found that the internalization signal of synaptotagmin 1 lies at the extreme COOH-terminus of the protein and can function in the absence of the C2B domain that contains the AP2 binding site. However, although not essential for internalization, the C2B domain of synaptotagmin 1 appeared to control the recognition of the internalization motif. By mutagenesis, two sites have been identified that modify regulation by the C2B domain in the neuroendocrine PC12 cell line. Mutation of a dilysine motif in the beta sandwich core of the domain eliminates endocytosis. This site is known to be a site of protein-protein interaction. Mutations in the calcium binding region, or in its close proximity, also affect internalization in PC12 cells. In fibroblasts, the C2B domain inhibits the COOH-terminal internalization signal, resulting in an absence of internalization in those cells. Thus, internalization of synaptotagmin 1 is controlled by the presence of a latent internalization signal in the COOH-terminal region and a regulatory region in the C2B domain. We propose that internalization of synaptotagmin 1 is regulated in this way to allow it to couple the processes of endocytosis and calcium-mediated exocytosis in cells of the neuroendocrine lineage.
11509566	Cloning and characterization of an alternatively spliced form of SR protein kinase 1 that interacts specifically with scaffold attachment factor-B.	Serine/arginine protein kinases have been conserved throughout evolution and are thought to play important roles in the regulation of mRNA processing, nuclear import, germline development, polyamine transport, and ion homeostasis. Human SRPK1, which was first identified as a kinase specific for the SR family of splicing factors, is located on chromosome 6p21.2-p21.3. We report here the cloning and characterization of SRPK1a, which is encoded by an alternatively processed transcript derived from the SRPK1 gene. SRPK1a contains an insertion of 171 amino acids at its NH(2)-terminal domain and is similar to SRPK1 in substrate specificity and subcellular localization. Moreover, both isoforms can induce alternative splicing of human tau exon 10 in transfected cells. Using the yeast two-hybrid assay, we found that the extended NH(2)-terminal domain of SRPK1a interacts with Scaffold Attachment Factor-B, a nuclear scaffold-associated protein. Confirmation of this interaction was provided by in vitro binding assays, as well as by co-immunoprecipitation from 293T cells doubly transfected with SRPK1a and SAF-B. Our studies suggest that different SRPK family members are uniquely regulated and targeted and thus the multiple SRPK kinases present in higher eukaryotes may perform specialized and differentiable functions.
11518704	IRAK-mediated translocation of TRAF6 and TAB2 in the interleukin-1-induced activation of NFkappa B.	The interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) is required for the IL-1-induced activation of nuclear factor kappaB and c-Jun N-terminal kinase. The goal of this study was to understand how IRAK activates the intermediate proteins TRAF6, TAK1, TAB1, and TAB2. When IRAK is phosphorylated in response to IL-1, it binds to the membrane where it forms a complex with TRAF6; TRAF6 then dissociates and translocates to the cytosol. The membrane-bound IRAK similarly mediates the IL-1-induced translocation of TAB2 from the membrane to the cytosol. Different regions of IRAK are required for the translocation of TAB2 and TRAF6, suggesting that IRAK mediates the translocation of each protein separately. The translocation of TAB2 and TRAF6 is needed to form a TRAF6-TAK1-TAB1-TAB2 complex in the cytosol and thus activate TAK1. Our results show that IRAK is required for the IL-1-induced phosphorylation of TAK1, TAB1, and TAB2. The phosphorylation of these three proteins correlates strongly with the activation of nuclear factor kappaB but is not necessary to activate c-Jun N-terminal kinase.
11522786	Characterization of glucokinase-binding protein epitopes by a phage-displayed peptide library. Identification of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase as a novel interaction partner.	The low affinity glucose-phosphorylating enzyme glucokinase shows the phenomenon of intracellular translocation in beta cells of the pancreas and the liver. To identify potential binding partners of glucokinase by a systematic strategy, human beta cell glucokinase was screened by a 12-mer random peptide library displayed by the M13 phage. This panning procedure revealed two consensus motifs with a high binding affinity for glucokinase. The first consensus motif, LSAXXVAG, corresponded to the glucokinase regulatory protein of the liver. The second consensus motif, SLKVWT, showed a complete homology to the bifunctional enzyme 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase (PFK-2/FBPase-2), which acts as a key regulator of glucose metabolism. Through yeast two-hybrid analysis it became evident that the binding of glucokinase to PFK-2/FBPase-2 is conferred by the bisphosphatase domain, whereas the kinase domain is responsible for dimerization. 5'-Rapid amplification of cDNA ends analysis and Northern blot analysis revealed that rat pancreatic islets express the brain isoform of PFK-2/FBPase-2. A minor portion of the islet PFK-2/FBPase-2 cDNA clones comprised a novel splice variant with 8 additional amino acids in the kinase domain. The binding of the islet/brain PFK-2/ FBPase-2 isoform to glucokinase was comparable with that of the liver isoform. The interaction between glucokinase and PFK-2/FBPase-2 may provide the rationale for recent observations of a fructose-2,6-bisphosphate level-dependent partial channeling of glycolytic intermediates between glucokinase and glycolytic enzymes. In pancreatic beta cells this interaction may have a regulatory function for the metabolic stimulus-secretion coupling. Changes in fructose-2,6-bisphosphate levels and modulation of PFK-2/FBPase-2 activities may participate in the physiological regulation of glucokinase-mediated glucose-induced insulin secretion.
11544529	Mal (MyD88-adapter-like) is required for Toll-like receptor-4 signal transduction.	The recognition of microbial pathogens by the innate immune system involves Toll-like receptors (TLRs), which recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns. Different TLRs recognize different pathogen-associated molecular patterns, with TLR-4 mediating the response to lipopolysaccharide from Gram-negative bacteria. All TLRs have a Toll/IL-1 receptor (TIR) domain, which is responsible for signal transduction. MyD88 is one such protein that contains a TIR domain. It acts as an adapter, being involved in TLR-2, TLR-4 and TLR-9 signalling; however, our understanding of how TLR-4 signals is incomplete. Here we describe a protein, Mal (MyD88-adapter-like), which joins MyD88 as a cytoplasmic TIR-domain-containing protein in the human genome. Mal activates NF-kappaB, Jun amino-terminal kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2. Mal can form homodimers and can also form heterodimers with MyD88. Activation of NF-kappaB by Mal requires IRAK-2, but not IRAK, whereas MyD88 requires both IRAKs. Mal associates with IRAK-2 by means of its TIR domain. A dominant negative form of Mal inhibits NF-kappaB, which is activated by TLR-4 or lipopolysaccharide, but it does not inhibit NF-kappaB activation by IL-1RI or IL-18R. Mal associates with TLR-4. Mal is therefore an adapter in TLR-4 signal transduction.
11553771	Comprehensive survey of proteins targeted by chloroplast thioredoxin.	Possible target proteins of chloroplast thioredoxin (Trx) have been investigated in the stroma lysate of spinach chloroplasts. For that purpose, we immobilized a mutant of m-type Trx in which an internal cysteine at the active site was substituted with serine, on cyanogen bromide-activated resin. By using this resin, the target proteins in chloroplast were efficiently acquired when they formed the mixed-disulfide intermediates with the immobilized Trxs. We could acquire Rubisco activase (45 kDa) and 2-Cys-type peroxiredoxin (Prx), which were recently identified as targets of chloroplast Trxs. Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and sedoheputulose 1,7-bisphosphatase, well-known thiol enzymes in the Calvin cycle, also were recognized among the collected proteins, suggesting the method is applicable for our purpose. Furthermore, four proteins were identified from a homology search of the NH(2)-terminal sequence of the acquired proteins: glutamine synthetase, a protein homologous to chloroplast cyclophilin, a homolog of Prx-Q, and the Rubisco small subunit. The Trx susceptibilities of the recombinant cyclophilin and Prx-Q of Arabidopsis thaliana were then examined. The method developed in the present study is thus applicable to investigate the various redox networks via Trxs and the related enzymes in the cell.
11571280	Polycomblike PHD fingers mediate conserved interaction with enhancer of zeste protein.	The products of Polycomb group (PcG) genes are required for the epigenetic repression of a number of important developmental regulatory genes, including homeotic genes. Enhancer of zeste (E(Z)) is a Drosophila PcG protein that previously has been shown to bind directly to another PcG protein, Extra Sex Combs (ESC), and is present along with ESC in a 600-kDa complex in Drosophila embryos. Using yeast two-hybrid and in vitro binding assays, we show that E(Z) binds directly to another PcG protein, Polycomblike (PCL). PCL.E(Z) interaction is shown to be mediated by the plant homeodomain (PHD) fingers domain of PCL, providing evidence that this motif can act as an independent protein interaction domain. An association was also observed between PHF1 and EZH2, human homologs of PCL and E(Z), respectively, demonstrating the evolutionary conservation of this interaction. E(Z) was found to not interact with the PHD domains of three Drosophila trithorax group (trxG) proteins, which function to maintain the transcriptional activity of homeotic genes, providing evidence for the specificity of the interaction of E(Z) with the PCL PHD domain. Coimmunoprecipitation and gel filtration experiments demonstrate in vivo association of PCL with E(Z) and ESC in Drosophila embryos. We discuss the implications of PCL association with ESC.E(Z) complexes and the possibility that PCL may either be a subunit of a subset of ESC.E(Z) complexes or a subunit of a separate complex that interacts with ESC.E(Z) complexes.
11585365	Characterization of functional interactions among the Escherichia coli mismatch repair proteins using a bacterial two-hybrid assay.	Vsr mediates very short patch repair in Escherichia coli, correcting T/G mismatches caused by deamination of 5-methylcytosine to thymine. MutS and MutL, part of the post-replication mismatch repair system, stimulate VSP repair. In this study, we use a bacterial two-hybrid assay to show that MutL interacts with Vsr. We also show that interaction between Vsr and MutL inhibits the ability of MutL to dimerize, to interact with MutS and MutH and to mediate a previously unknown interaction between MutS and MutH. This inhibition may explain why high levels of Vsr are mutagenic in vivo. In addition, we show that the Mut fusion proteins are repair proficient in the bacterial two-hybrid assay, making it possible to study their interactions in various genetic backgrounds, or in the presence of DNA damaging agents.
11585385	Human leptin signaling in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells: activation of the JAK-STAT pathway.	Leptin is an adipocyte-secreted hormone that centrally regulates weight control. However, the leptin receptor is expressed not only in the central nervous system, but also in other systems, such as reproductive, hematopoietic, and immune tissues, suggesting various roles in addition to the regulation of food intake and energy expenditure. The leptin receptor bears homology to members of the class I cytokine receptor family. Leptin has previously been shown to enhance cytokine production by murine peritoneal macrophages and human circulating monocytes, where human leptin promotes activation and proliferation. We have recently found that the leptin receptor is expressed not only in monocytes but also in both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes. Besides, leptin enhances proliferation and activation of T lymphocytes when they are costimulated by PHA or Con A. In this paper, we have studied the signal transduction of the leptin receptor in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. We found that leptin stimulation activates the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. More specifically, we found that JAK-2/3 and STAT-3 are activated by tyrosine phosphorylation upon leptin stimulation. Moreover, leptin stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of the RNA binding protein Sam68 and its association with STAT-3. These effects were dose-dependent (0.1-10 nM) and transient (5-30 min). We also observed the leptin stimulated translocation of activated STAT-3 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. These results indicate that human leptin receptor in circulating mononuclear cells has the signaling capacity to activate JAK-STAT cascade. This pathway may mediate, at least in part, the action of human leptin in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
11591731	Functional characterization of the KNOLLE-interacting t-SNARE AtSNAP33 and its role in plant cytokinesis.	Cytokinesis requires membrane fusion during cleavage-furrow ingression in animals and cell plate formation in plants. In Arabidopsis, the Sec1 homologue KEULE (KEU) and the cytokinesis-specific syntaxin KNOLLE (KN) cooperate to promote vesicle fusion in the cell division plane. Here, we characterize AtSNAP33, an Arabidopsis homologue of the t-SNARE SNAP25, that was identified as a KN interactor in a yeast two-hybrid screen. AtSNAP33 is a ubiquitously expressed membrane-associated protein that accumulated at the plasma membrane and during cell division colocalized with KN at the forming cell plate. A T-DNA insertion in the AtSNAP33 gene caused loss of AtSNAP33 function, resulting in a lethal dwarf phenotype. atsnap33 plantlets gradually developed large necrotic lesions on cotyledons and rosette leaves, resembling pathogen-induced cellular responses, and eventually died before flowering. In addition, mutant seedlings displayed cytokinetic defects, and atsnap33 in combination with the cytokinesis mutant keu was embryo lethal. Analysis of the Arabidopsis genome revealed two further SNAP25-like proteins that also interacted with KN in the yeast two-hybrid assay. Our results suggest that AtSNAP33, the first SNAP25 homologue characterized in plants, is involved in diverse membrane fusion processes, including cell plate formation, and that AtSNAP33 function in cytokinesis may be replaced partially by other SNAP25 homologues.
11595789	Two-hybrid analysis of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae 26S proteasome.	A two-hybrid screen against an activation domain array of Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins was carried out for 31 yeast proteasome proteins. Fifty-five putative interactions were identified: 21 between components of the proteasome complex and 34 between proteasome proteins and other proteins. Many of these latter interactions involved either proteins of the ubiquitin pathway, cell cycle proteins, protein kinases or a translation initiation factor subunit. The role of eleven proteins associated with proteasome function by these screens was analyzed by examining the corresponding deletion strains for temperature sensitivity and canavanine sensitivity and for the stability of a ubiquitin-beta-galactosidase fusion protein. These assays additionally implicated three proteins, Bim1, Ump1, and YKL171W, in proteasome function. This study demonstrates the utility of genome-wide two-hybrid assays as an entry point for the further analysis of a large protein complex.
11598021	Werner syndrome protein interacts with human flap endonuclease 1 and stimulates its cleavage activity.	Werner syndrome (WS) is a human premature aging disorder characterized by chromosomal instability. The cellular defects of WS presumably reflect compromised or aberrant function of a DNA metabolic pathway that under normal circumstances confers stability to the genome. We report a novel interaction of the WRN gene product with the human 5' flap endonuclease/5'-3' exonuclease (FEN-1), a DNA structure-specific nuclease implicated in DNA replication, recombination and repair. WS protein (WRN) dramatically stimulates the rate of FEN-1 cleavage of a 5' flap DNA substrate. The WRN-FEN-1 functional interaction is independent of WRN catalytic function and mediated by a 144 amino acid domain of WRN that shares homology with RecQ DNA helicases. A physical interaction between WRN and FEN-1 is demonstrated by their co-immunoprecipitation from HeLa cell lysate and affinity pull-down experiments using a recombinant C-terminal fragment of WRN. The underlying defect of WS is discussed in light of the evidence for the interaction between WRN and FEN-1.
11602612	The serine protease Omi/HtrA2 regulates apoptosis by binding XIAP through a reaper-like motif.	The inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins (IAPs) play a critical role in the regulation of apoptosis by binding and inhibiting caspases. Reaper family proteins and Smac/DIABLO use a conserved amino-terminal sequence to bind to IAPs in flies and mammals, respectively, blocking their ability to inhibit caspases and thus promoting apoptosis. Here we have identified the serine protease Omi/HtrA2 as a second mammalian XIAP-binding protein with a Reaper-like motif. This protease autoprocesses to form a protein with amino-terminal homology to Smac/DIABLO and Reaper family proteins. Full-length Omi/HtrA2 is localized to mitochondria but fails to interact with XIAP. Mitochondria also contain processed Omi/HtrA2, which, following apoptotic insult, translocates to the cytosol, where it interacts with XIAP. Overexpression of Omi/HtrA2 sensitizes cells to apoptosis, and its removal by RNA interference reduces cell death. Omi/HtrA2 thus extends the set of mammalian proteins with Reaper-like function that are released from the mitochondria during apoptosis.
11606749	Oligomerization of the integrin alphaIIbbeta3: roles of the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains.	Integrins are a family of alpha/beta heterodimeric membrane proteins, which mediate cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. The molecular mechanisms by which integrins are activated and cluster are currently poorly understood. One hypothesis posits that the cytoplasmic tails of the alpha and beta subunits interact strongly with one another in a 1:1 interaction, and that this interaction is modulated in the course of the activation of alphaIIbbeta3 [Hughes, P. E., et al. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 6571-6574]. To examine the structural basis for this interaction, protein fragments encompassing the transmembrane helix plus cytoplasmic tails of the alpha and beta subunits of alphaIIbbeta3 were expressed and studied in phospholipid micelles at physiological salt concentrations. Analyses of these fragments by analytical ultracentrifugation, NMR, circular dichroism, and electrophoresis indicated that they had very little or no tendency to interact with one another. Instead, they formed homomeric interactions, with the alpha- and beta-fragments forming dimers and trimers, respectively. Thus, these regions of the protein structure may contribute to the clustering of integrins that accompanies cellular adhesion.
11606776	Drosophila MyD88 is an adapter in the Toll signaling pathway.	Toll-like receptors comprise a family of cell surface receptors that play a crucial role in the innate immune recognition of both Drosophila and mammals. Previous studies have shown that Drosophila Toll-1 mediates the induction of antifungal peptides during fungal infection of adult flies. Through genetic studies, Tube, Pelle, Cactus, and Dif have been identified as downstream components of the Toll-1 signaling pathway. Here we report characterization of a Drosophila homologue of human MyD88, dMyD88. We show that dMyD88 is an adapter in the Toll signaling pathway that associates with both the Toll receptor and the downstream kinase Pelle. Expression of dMyD88 in S2 cells strongly induced activity of a Drosomycin reporter gene, whereas a dominant-negative version of dMyD88 potently inhibited Toll-mediated signaling. We also show that dMyD88 associates with the death domain-containing adapter Drosophila Fas-associated death domain-containing protein (dFADD), which in turn interacts with the apical caspase Dredd. This pathway links a cell surface receptor to an apical caspase in invertebrate cells and therefore suggests that the Toll-mediated pathway of caspase activation may be the evolutionary ancestor of the death receptor-mediated pathway for apoptosis induction in mammals.
11691995	Interaction of the response regulator ARR4 with phytochrome B in modulating red light signaling.	The Arabidopsis thaliana response regulator 4, expressed in response to phytochrome B action, specifically interacts with the extreme amino-terminus of the photoreceptor. The response regulator 4 stabilizes the active Pfr form of phytochrome B in yeast and in planta, thus elevates the level of the active photoreceptor in vivo. Accordingly, transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing the response regulator 4 display hypersensitivity to red light but not to light of other wavelengths. We propose that the response regulator 4 acts as an output element of a two-component system that modulates red light signaling on the level of the phytochrome B photoreceptor.
11706030	Differential effect of ik3-1/cables on p53- and p73-induced cell death.	ik3-1/Cables is associated with cdk3 in self-replicating cells. In postmitotic neurons, it may serve as an adaptor molecule, functionally connecting c-abl and cdk5, and supporting neurite growth. Here we report that ik3-1 binds to p53 and p73 in vivo. Ectopically expressed ik3-1 potentiates p53-induced cell death but not p73-induced cell death in U2OS cells. On the contrary, coexpression of ik3-1-DeltaC, an ik3-1 deletion mutant lacking the C-terminal 139 [corrected] amino acids (corresponding to the cyclin box-homologous region), inhibits p73-induced cell death but not p53-induced cell death. ik3-1-DeltaC-mediated inhibition of p73-induced cell death are partially attenuated by overexpression of ik3-1. These data indicate that ik3-1 is not only a regulator for p53-induced cell death but also an essential regulator for p73-induced cell death, and ik3-1-DeltaC competes with ik3-1 only in p73-induced cell death. Furthermore, functional domains of p53 responsible for its interaction with ik3-1 are partially different from those of p73. In conclusion, we found that ik3-1, a putative component of cell cycle regulation, is functionally connected with p53 and p73, but in distinct fashions.
11717445	Caspase-10 is an initiator caspase in death receptor signaling.	A role for caspase-10, previously implicated in the autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, in death receptor signaling has not been directly shown. Here we show that caspase-10 can function independently of caspase-8 in initiating Fas- and tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand-receptor-mediated apoptosis. Moreover, Fas crosslinking in primary human T cells leads to the recruitment and activation of caspase-10. Fluorescent resonance energy transfer analysis indicates that the death-effector domains of caspase-8 and -10 both interact with the death-effector domain of FADD. Nonetheless, we find that caspase-8 and -10 may have different apoptosis substrates and therefore potentially distinct roles in death receptor signaling or other cellular processes.
11718726	Protein-binding partners of the tobacco syntaxin NtSyr1.	Syntaxins and other SNARE (soluble NSF-attachment protein receptor) complex proteins play a key role in the cellular processes of vesicle trafficking, vesicle fusion and secretion. Intriguingly, the SNARE NtSyr1 (=NtSyp121) from Nicotiana tabacum also appears to have a role in signalling evoked by the plant stress hormone abscisic acid. However, partner proteins contributing to its function(s) remain unknown. We used an affinity chromatography approach to identify proteins from tobacco leaf microsomes that directly interact with the hydrophilic (cytosolic) domains of NtSyr1 and report several interacting proteins with sensitivities to the endopeptidase activity of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxins, including one protein that was recognised by alphaAtSNAP33 antiserum, raised against the Arabidopsis SNAP25 homologue. Treatment of microsomal membrane fractions indicated a protein near 55 kDa was sensitive to proteolysis by BotN/A and BotN/E, yielding degradation products of approximately 34 and 23 kDa. Expressed and purified AtSNAP33 also bound directly to the cytosolic domain of NtSyr1 and was sensitive to proteolysis by these toxins, suggesting that NtSyr1, a tobacco homologue of AtSNAP33, and coordinate SNAREs are likely to associate as partners for function in vivo.
11741893	Cloning of MASK, a novel member of the mammalian germinal center kinase III subfamily, with apoptosis-inducing properties.	We have cloned a novel human GCK family kinase that has been designated as MASK (Mst3 and SOK1-related kinase). MASK is widely expressed and encodes a protein of 416 amino acid residues, with an N-terminal kinase domain and a unique C-terminal region. Like other GCK-III subfamily kinases, MASK does not activate any mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. Wild type MASK, but not a form lacking the C terminus, exhibits homophilic binding in the yeast two-hybrid system and in coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Additionally, deletion of this C-terminal region of MASK leads to an increased kinase activity toward itself as well as toward an exogenous substrate, myelin basic protein. A potential caspase 3 cleavage site (DESDS) is present in the C-terminal region of MASK, and we show that MASK is cleaved in vitro by caspase 3. Finally, wild type and C-terminally truncated forms of MASK can both induce apoptosis upon overexpression in mammalian cells that is abrogated by CrmA, suggesting involvement of MASK in the apoptotic machinery in mammalian cells.
11742986	Subunit interaction maps for the regulatory particle of the 26S proteasome and the COP9 signalosome.	The 26S proteasome plays a major role in eukaryotic protein breakdown, especially for ubiquitin-tagged proteins. Substrate specificity is conferred by the regulatory particle (RP), which can dissociate into stable lid and base subcomplexes. To help define the molecular organization of the RP, we tested all possible paired interactions among subunits from Saccharomyces cerevisiae by yeast two-hybrid analysis. Within the base, a Rpt4/5/3/6 interaction cluster was evident. Within the lid, a structural cluster formed around Rpn5/11/9/8. Interactions were detected among synonymous subunits (Csn4/5/7/6) from the evolutionarily related COP9 signalosome (CSN) from Arabidopsis, implying a similar quaternary arrangement. No paired interactions were detected between lid, base or core particle subcomplexes, suggesting that stable contacts between them require prior assembly. Mutational analysis defined the ATPase, coiled-coil, PCI and MPN domains as important for RP assembly. A single residue in the vWA domain of Rpn10 is essential for amino acid analog resistance, for degrading a ubiquitin fusion degradation substrate and for stabilizing lid-base association. Comprehensive subunit interaction maps for the 26S proteasome and CSN support the ancestral relationship of these two complexes.
11743162	A combined experimental and computational strategy to define protein interaction networks for peptide recognition modules.	Peptide recognition modules mediate many protein-protein interactions critical for the assembly of macromolecular complexes. Complete genome sequences have revealed thousands of these domains, requiring improved methods for identifying their physiologically relevant binding partners. We have developed a strategy combining computational prediction of interactions from phage-display ligand consensus sequences with large-scale two-hybrid physical interaction tests. Application to yeast SH3 domains generated a phage-display network containing 394 interactions among 206 proteins and a two-hybrid network containing 233 interactions among 145 proteins. Graph theoretic analysis identified 59 highly likely interactions common to both networks. Las17 (Bee1), a member of the Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome protein (WASP) family of actin-assembly proteins, showed multiple SH3 interactions, many of which were confirmed in vivo by coimmunoprecipitation.
11743586	Drosophila MyD88 is required for the response to fungal and Gram-positive bacterial infections.	We report here the identification and functional characterization of DmMyD88, a gene encoding the Drosophila homolog of mammalian MyD88. DmMyD88 combines a Toll-IL-1R homology (TIR) domain and a death domain. Overexpression of DmMyD88 was sufficient to induce expression of the antifungal peptide Drosomycin, and induction of Drosomycin was markedly reduced in DmMyD88-mutant flies. DmMyD88 interacted with Toll through its TIR domain and required the death domain proteins Tube and Pelle to activate expression of Drs, which encodes Drosomycin. DmMyD88-mutant flies were highly susceptible to infection by fungi and Gram-positive bacteria, but resisted Gram-negative bacterial infection much as did wild-type flies. Phenotypic comparison of DmMyD88-mutant flies and MyD88-deficient mice showed essential differences in the control of Gram-negative infection in insects and mammals.
11751894	A new first step in activation of steroid receptors: hormone-induced switching of FKBP51 and FKBP52 immunophilins.	We have identified a new first step in the hormonal activation of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Rather than causing immediate dissociation of the cytoplasmic GR heterocomplex, binding of hormone-induced substitution of one immunophilin (FKBP51) for another (FKBP52), and concomitant recruitment of the transport protein dynein while leaving Hsp90 unchanged. Immunofluorescence and fractionation revealed hormone-induced translocation of the hormone-generated GR-Hsp90-FKBP52-dynein complex from cytoplasm to nucleus, a step that precedes dissociation of the complex within the nucleus and conversion of GR to the DNA-binding form. Taken as a whole, these studies identify immunophilin interchange as the earliest known event in steroid receptor signaling and provide the first evidence of differential roles for FKBP51 and FKBP52 immunophilins in the control of steroid receptor subcellular localization and transport.
11751921	A novel zinc finger protein that inhibits osteoclastogenesis and the function of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6.	A variety of surface receptors eliciting diverse cellular responses have been shown to recruit tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) adaptor molecules. However, a few TRAF-interacting intracellular proteins that serve as downstream targets or regulators of TRAF function have been identified. In search of new intracellular molecules that bind TRAF6, we carried out a yeast two-hybrid cDNA library screening with an N-terminal segment of TRAF6 as the bait. A novel human C(2)H(2)-type zinc finger family protein was identified, which when coexpressed with TRAF6 led to a suppression of TRAF6-induced activation of NF-kappa B and c-Jun N-terminal kinase. This novel protein was designated TIZ (for TRAF6-inhibitory zinc finger protein). TIZ expression also inhibited the signaling of RANK (receptor activator of NF-kappa B), which together with TRAF6 has been shown to be essential for osteoclastogenesis. Furthermore, the expression level of TIZ appeared to be regulated during the differentiation of human peripheral blood monocytes into osteoclasts. More significantly, transfection of TIZ into the monocyte/macrophage cell line Raw264.7 reduced the RANK ligand-induced osteoclastogenesis of this cell line. Our findings suggest that the novel zinc finger protein TIZ may play a role during osteoclast differentiation by modulating TRAF6 signaling activity.
11752384	Functional studies of Ycf3: its role in assembly of photosystem I and interactions with some of its subunits.	The Ycf3 protein is essential for the accumulation of the photosystem I (PSI) complex and acts at a post-translational level. The sequence of Ycf3 is conserved in cyanobacteria, algae, and plants and contains three tetratrico-peptide repeats (TPR). TPRs have been shown to function as sites for protein-protein interactions. The mutations Y95A/Y96A and Y142A/W143A in the second and third TPR repeats lead to a modest decrease of PSI, but they prevent photoautotrophic growth and cause enhanced light sensitivity even though the accumulated PSI complex is fully functional. This phenotype can be reversed under anaerobic conditions and appears to be the result of photooxidative damage. A temperature-sensitive ycf3 mutant, generated by random mutagenesis of a conserved region near the N-terminal end of Ycf3, was used in temperature-shift experiments to show that Ycf3 is required for PSI assembly but not for its stability. Immunoblot analysis of thylakoid membranes separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and immunoprecipitations shows that Ycf3 interacts directly with the PSI subunits PsaA and PsaD, but not with subunits from other photosynthetic complexes. Thus, Ycf3 appears to act as a chaperone that interacts directly and specifically with at least two of the PSI subunits during assembly of the PSI complex.
11780067	Selectivity of chromatin-remodelling cofactors for ligand-activated transcription.	An array of regulatory protein and multi-subunit cofactors has been identified that directs eukaryotic gene transcription. However, establishing the specific functions of various related cofactors has been difficult owing to the limitations inherent in assaying transcription in animals and cells indirectly. Here we describe, using an integrated chromatin-dependent reconstituted transcription reaction, the purification and identification of a multi-subunit cofactor (PBAF) that is necessary for ligand-dependent transactivation by nuclear hormone receptors. A highly related cofactor, human SWI/SNF, and the ISWI-containing chromatin-remodelling complex ACF both fail to potentiate transcription. We also show that transcriptional activation mediated by nuclear hormone receptors requires TATA-binding protein (TBP)-associated factors (TAFs) as well as the multi-subunit cofactors ARC/CRSP. These studies demonstrate functional selectivity amongst highly related complexes involved in gene regulation and help define a more complete set of factors and cofactors required to activate transcription.
11781573	Design and application of a cytokine-receptor-based interaction trap.	Ligand-induced clustering of type I cytokine receptor subunits leads to trans-phosphorylation and activation of associated cytosolic janus kinases (JAKs). In turn, JAKs phosphorylate tyrosine residues in the receptor tails, leading to recruitment and activation of signalling molecules. Among these, signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) are important in the direct transmission of signals to the nucleus. Here, we show that incorporation of an interaction trap in a signalling-deficient receptor allows the identification of protein-protein interactions, using a STAT-dependent complementation assay. Mammalian protein-protein interaction trap (MAPPIT) adds to existing yeast two-hybrid procedures, as originally explored by Fields and Song, and permits the detection of both modification-independent and of phosphorylation-dependent interactions in intact human cells. We also demonstrate that MAPPIT can be used to screen complex complementary DNA libraries, and using this approach, we identify cytokine-inducible SH2-containing protein (CIS) and suppressor of cytokine signalling-2 (SOCS-2) as interaction partners of the phosphotyrosine 402 (Tyr 402)-binding motif in the erythropoietin receptor (EpoR). Importantly, this approach places protein-protein interactions in their normal physiological context, and is especially applicable to the in situ analysis of signal transduction pathways.
11788586	Interaction of Bruton's tyrosine kinase and protein kinase Ctheta in platelets. Cross-talk between tyrosine and serine/threonine kinases.	The nonreceptor Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) has been previously shown to associate physically and functionally with members of the protein kinase C (PKC) family of serine/threonine kinases in a variety of cell types. Here we show evidence for a novel interaction between Btk and PKCtheta; in platelets activated through the adhesion receptors GP Ib-V-IX and GP VI. Alboaggregin A, a snake venom component capable of activating both receptors in combination, leads to tyrosine phosphorylation of Btk downstream of Src family kinases. Inhibition of Btk by the selective antagonist LFM-A13 causes a reduction in calcium entry, although secretion of 5-hydroxytryptamine is potentiated. Btk is also phosphorylated on threonine residues in a PKC-dependent manner and associates with PKCtheta; upon platelet activation by either alboaggregin A or activation of GP Ib-V-IX alone by von Willebrand factor/ristocetin. PKCtheta; in turn becomes tyrosine-phosphorylated in a manner dependent upon Src family and Btk kinase activity. Inhibition of Btk activity by LFM-A13 leads to enhancement of PKCtheta; activity, whereas nonselective inhibition of PKC activity by bisindolylmaleimide I leads to reduction in Btk activity. We propose a reciprocal feedback interaction between Btk and PKCtheta; in platelets, in which PKCtheta; positively modulates activity of Btk, which in turn feeds back negatively upon PKCtheta;.
11801603	SMAC negatively regulates the anti-apoptotic activity of melanoma inhibitor of apoptosis (ML-IAP).	Inhibitors of apoptosis (IAPs) physically interact with a variety of pro-apoptotic proteins and inhibit apoptosis induced by diverse stimuli. X-linked IAP (X-IAP) is a prototype IAP family member that inhibits several caspases, the effector proteases of apoptosis. The inhibitory activity of X-IAP is regulated by SMAC, a protein that is processed to its active form upon receipt of a death stimulus. Cleaved SMAC binds X-IAP and antagonizes its anti-apoptotic activity. Here we show that melanoma IAP (ML-IAP), a potent anti-cell death protein and caspase inhibitor, physically interacts with SMAC through its BIR (baculovirus IAP repeat) domain. In addition to binding full-length SMAC, ML-IAP BIR associates with SMAC peptides that are derived from the amino terminus of active, processed SMAC. This high affinity interaction is very specific and can be completely abolished by single amino acid mutations either in the amino terminus of active SMAC or in the BIR domain of ML-IAP. In cells expressing ML-IAP and X-IAP, SMAC coexpression or addition of SMAC peptides abrogates the ability of the IAPs to inhibit cell death. These results demonstrate the feasibility of using SMAC peptides as a way to sensitize IAP-expressing cells to pro-apoptotic stimuli such as chemotherapeutic agents.
11818065	The damage-responsive Drosophila gene sickle encodes a novel IAP binding protein similar to but distinct from reaper, grim, and hid.	In flies and mammals, critical regulators of cell death function by antagonizing Inhibitor of Apoptosis Proteins (IAPs), which themselves directly block caspase action. The three currently known IAP antagonists in Drosophila map to the H99 genomic interval required for all programmed cell death. Here we describe a fourth member of this genetic group, sickle (skl), which maps just outside of the H99 deletion. At its N terminus, Skl shares residues in common with other IAP antagonists in flies (Rpr, Grim, and Hid) and in mammals (Smac/DIABLO and Omi/Htra2). Like other activators of apoptosis mapping in the Reaper region, full-length skl induced apoptosis when overexpressed, and the N terminus of this protein specifically bound to the BIR2 domain of DIAP1. However, unlike the N termini of Grim, Hid, and Rpr, the N terminus of Skl did not induce apoptosis. skl transcripts accumulate in cells that are fated to die in some but not all regions of the embryo. Genotoxic stimuli induced skl expression, but skl was not responsive to all signals that trigger premature apoptosis. skl is potentially a fourth IAP antagonist in the "Reaper region" and a new candidate transducer of apoptotic damage signaling in Drosophila.
11828029	The APRR1/TOC1 quintet implicated in circadian rhythms of Arabidopsis thaliana: II. Characterization with CCA1-overexpressing plants.	We previously identified a novel class of proteins, named pseudo-response regulators (APRRs) in Arabidopsis thaliana, each of which (APRR1, APRR3, APRR5, APRR7, and APRR9) has an intriguing structural design containing an N-terminal pseudo receiver domain and a C-terminal CONSTANS motif. Among them, APRR1 is identical to TOC1, previously proposed to be a candidate component of an Arabidopsis circadian clock. Intriguingly, expressions of the APRR1/TOC1 family of genes are under control of coordinate circadian rhythms at the level of transcription, in the manner that each APRR-transcript starts accumulating sequentially after dawn with 2 to 3 h intervals in the order: APRR9-->APRR7-->APRR5-->APRR3-->APRR1/TOC1. Here we examined this circadian-related event, "circadian waves of the APRR1/TOC1 quintet", by employing CCA1-overexpression (CCA1-ox) transgenic plants, based on the fact that CCA1 is a well-characterized and the most plausible oscillator component. It was found that aberrant overexpression of the CCA1 gene severely perturbed free-running and sequential rhythms of the APRR1/TOC1 family of genes. In the accompanying paper, it was shown that overexpression of APRR1 also results in a marked alteration of the CCA1 circadian rhythm, and vice versa. Taken together, it was suggested that there are intimate and mutual links between these two types of circadian-associated components (APRRs and CCA1).
11842115	Functional and physical interactions between components of the Prp19p-associated complex.	The Prp19p-associated complex is essential for the yeast pre-mRNA splicing reaction. The complex consists of at least eight protein components, but is not tightly associated with spliceosomal snRNAs. By a combination of genetic and biochemical methods we previously identified four components of this complex, Ntc25p, Ntc85p, Ntc30p and Ntc20p, all of them being novel splicing factors. We have now identified three other components of the complex, Ntc90p, Ntc77p and Ntc31p. These three proteins were also associated with the spliceosome during the splicing reaction in the same manner as Prp19p, concurrently with or immediately after dissociation of U4 snRNA. Two-hybrid analysis revealed that none of these proteins interacted with Prp19p or Ntc25p, but all interacted with Ntc85p. An interaction network between the identified components of the Prp19p-associated complex is demonstrated. Biochemical analysis revealed that Ntc90p, Ntc31p, Ntc30p and Ntc20p form a subcomplex, which, through interacting with Ntc85p and Ntc77p, can associate with Prp19p and Ntc25p to form the Prp19p-associated complex. Genetic analysis suggests that Ntc31p, Ntc30p and Ntc20p may play roles in modulating the function of Ntc90p.
11846878	The GAMYB protein from barley interacts with the DOF transcription factor BPBF and activates endosperm-specific genes during seed development.	HvGAMYB, a MYB transcription factor previously shown to be expressed in barley aleurone cells in response to gibberellin during germination, also has an important role in gene regulation during endosperm development. The mRNA was detected early (10 DAF) in the seeds where it accumulates, not only in the aleurone layer, starchy endosperm, nucellar projection and vascular tissue, but also in the immature embryo as shown by in situ hybridization analysis. The HvGAMYB protein, expressed in bacteria, binds to oligonucleotides containing the 5'-TAACAAC-3' or 5'-CAACTAAC-3' sequences, derived from the promoter regions of the endosperm-specific genes Hor2 and Itr1, encoding a B-hordein and trypsin-inhibitor BTI-CMe, respectively. Binding is prevented when these motifs are mutated to 5'-TgACAAg-3' and 5'-CgACTgAC-3'. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing endosperms demonstrate that HvGAMYB trans-activates transcription from native Hor2 and Itr1 promoters through binding to the intact motifs described above. Trans-activation of the Hor2 promoter also requires an intact prolamine box (PB). This suggests that HvGAMYB interacts in developing barley endosperms with the PB-binding factor BPBF, an endosperm-specific DOF transcriptional activator of the Hor2 gene. The in vivo interaction experiment between HvGAMYB and BPBF was done in the yeast two-hybrid system, where HvGAMYB potentiates the BPBF trans-activation capacity through interaction with its C-terminal domain.
11854533	Analysis of MADS box protein-protein interactions in living plant cells.	Over the last decade, the yeast two-hybrid system has become the tool to use for the identification of protein-protein interactions and recently, even complete interactomes were elucidated by this method. Nevertheless, it is an artificial system that is sensitive to errors resulting in the identification of false-positive and false-negative interactions. In this study, plant MADS box transcription factor interactions identified by yeast two-hybrid systems where studied in living plant cells by a technique based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). Petunia MADS box proteins were fused to either cyan fluorescent protein or yellow fluorescent protein and transiently expressed in protoplasts followed by FRET-spectral imaging microscopy and FRET-fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy to detect FRET and hence protein-protein interactions. All petunia MADS box heterodimers identified in yeast were confirmed in protoplasts. However, in contrast to the yeast two-hybrid results, homodimerization was demonstrated in plant cells for three petunia MADS box proteins. Heterodimers were identified between the ovule-specific MADS box protein FLORAL BINDING PROTEIN 11 and members of the petunia FLORAL BINDING PROTEIN 2 subfamily, which are also expressed in ovules, suggesting that these dimers play a role in ovule development. Furthermore, the role of dimerization in translocation of MADS box protein dimers to the nucleus is demonstrated, and the nuclear localization signal of MADS box proteins has been mapped to the N-terminal region of the MADS domain by means of mutant analyses.
11882902	Structure of the HP1 chromodomain bound to histone H3 methylated at lysine 9.	Specific modifications to histones are essential epigenetic markers---heritable changes in gene expression that do not affect the DNA sequence. Methylation of lysine 9 in histone H3 is recognized by heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1), which directs the binding of other proteins to control chromatin structure and gene expression. Here we show that HP1 uses an induced-fit mechanism for recognition of this modification, as revealed by the structure of its chromodomain bound to a histone H3 peptide dimethylated at Nzeta of lysine 9. The binding pocket for the N-methyl groups is provided by three aromatic side chains, Tyr21, Trp42 and Phe45, which reside in two regions that become ordered on binding of the peptide. The side chain of Lys9 is almost fully extended and surrounded by residues that are conserved in many other chromodomains. The QTAR peptide sequence preceding Lys9 makes most of the additional interactions with the chromodomain, with HP1 residues Val23, Leu40, Trp42, Leu58 and Cys60 appearing to be a major determinant of specificity by binding the key buried Ala7. These findings predict which other chromodomains will bind methylated proteins and suggest a motif that they recognize.
11884590	Proteomics analysis reveals stable multiprotein complexes in both fission and budding yeasts containing Myb-related Cdc5p/Cef1p, novel pre-mRNA splicing factors, and snRNAs.	Schizosaccharomyces pombe Cdc5p and its Saccharomyces cerevisiae ortholog, Cef1p, are essential Myb-related proteins implicated in pre-mRNA splicing and contained within large multiprotein complexes. Here we describe the tandem affinity purification (TAP) of Cdc5p- and Cef1p-associated complexes. Using transmission electron microscopy, we show that the purified Cdc5p complex is a discrete structure. The components of the S. pombe Cdc5p/S. cerevisiae Cef1p complexes (termed Cwfs or Cwcs, respectively) were identified using direct analysis of large protein complex (DALPC) mass spectrometry (A. J. Link et al., Nat. Biotechnol. 17:676-682, 1999). At least 26 proteins were detected in the Cdc5p/Cef1p complexes. Comparison of the polypeptides identified by S. pombe Cdc5p purification with those identified by S. cerevisiae Cef1p purification indicates that these two yeast complexes are nearly identical in composition. The majority of S. pombe Cwf proteins and S. cerevisiae Cwc proteins are known pre-mRNA splicing factors including core Sm and U2 and U5 snRNP components. In addition, the complex contains the U2, U5, and U6 snRNAs. Previously uncharacterized proteins were also identified, and we provide evidence that several of these novel factors are involved in pre-mRNA splicing. Our data represent the first comprehensive analysis of CDC5-associated proteins in yeasts, describe a discrete highly conserved complex containing novel pre-mRNA splicing factors, and demonstrate the power of DALPC for identification of components in multiprotein complexes.
11889037	A crystallographic view of interactions between Dbs and Cdc42: PH domain-assisted guanine nucleotide exchange.	Dbl-related oncoproteins are guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) specific for Rho guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) and invariably possess tandem Dbl (DH) and pleckstrin homology (PH) domains. While it is known that the DH domain is the principal catalytic subunit, recent biochemical data indicate that for some Dbl-family proteins, such as Dbs and Trio, PH domains may cooperate with their associated DH domains in promoting guanine nucleotide exchange of Rho GTPases. In order to gain an understanding of the involvement of these PH domains in guanine nucleotide exchange, we have determined the crystal structure of a DH/PH fragment from Dbs in complex with Cdc42. The complex features the PH domain in a unique conformation distinct from the PH domains in the related structures of Sos1 and Tiam1.Rac1. Consequently, the Dbs PH domain participates with the DH domain in binding Cdc42, primarily through a set of interactions involving switch 2 of the GTPase. Comparative sequence analysis suggests that a subset of Dbl-family proteins will utilize their PH domains similarly to Dbs.
11889039	Arabidopsis FHY3 defines a key phytochrome A signaling component directly interacting with its homologous partner FAR1.	In Arabidopsis, phytochrome A (phyA) is the primary photoreceptor mediating various plant responses to far-red (FR) light. Here we show that phyA signaling involves a combinatorial action of downstream intermediates, which controls overlapping yet distinctive sets of FR responses. FHY3 is a prominent phyA signaling intermediate sharing structural similarity to FAR1, a previously identified phyA signaling component. The fhy3 and far1 mutants display similar yet distinctive defects in phyA signaling; however, overexpression of either FHY3 or FAR1 suppresses the mutant phenotype of both genes. Moreover, overexpression of partial fragments of FHY3 can cause a dominant-negative interference phenotype on phyA signaling that is stronger than those of the fhy3 or far1 null mutants. Further, we demonstrate that FHY3 and FAR1 are capable of homo- and hetero-interaction. Our data indicate that FHY3, together with FAR1, defines a key module in a signaling network underlying phyA-mediated FR light responses.
11891324	The embryonic stem cell transcription factors Oct-4 and FoxD3 interact to regulate endodermal-specific promoter expression.	The POU homeodomain protein Oct-4 and the Forkhead Box protein FoxD3 (previously Genesis) are transcriptional regulators expressed in embryonic stem cells. Down-regulation of Oct-4 during gastrulation is essential for proper endoderm development. After gastrulation, FoxD3 is generally down-regulated during early endoderm formation, although it specifically remains expressed in the embryonic neural crest. In these studies, we have found that Oct-4 and FoxD3 can bind to identical regulatory DNA sequences. In addition, Oct-4 physically interacted with the FoxD3 DNA-binding domain. Cotransfection of Oct-4 and FoxD3 expression vectors activated the osteopontin enhancer, which is expressed in totipotent embryonic stem cells. FoxA1 and FoxA2 (previously HNF-3alpha and HNF-3beta) are Forkhead Box transcription factors that participate in liver and lung formation from foregut endoderm. Although FoxD3 activated the FoxA1 and FoxA2 promoters, Oct-4 inhibited FoxD3 activation of the FoxA1 and FoxA2 endodermal promoters. These data indicate that Oct-4 functions as a corepressor of FoxD3 to provide embryonic lineage-specific transcriptional regulatory activity to maintain appropriate developmental timing.
11896535	Cell cycle progression of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells is controlled by cyclin D2, cyclin D3, cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) 4 and the cdk inhibitor p27.	B-CLL cells are arrested in G0/early G1 phase of the cell cycle and are characterized by a marked hyporesponsiveness towards a variety of polyclonal B cell activators. We have previously demonstrated that costimulation with CpG-ODN and IL-2 can overcome this proliferative defect. Cyclin D3 is the principal D-type cyclin which mediates G1 progression in normal B cells, but in B-CLL cells both cyclin D2 and cyclin D3, were strongly upregulated upon stimulation. Both cyclins were associated with cdk4 but not with cdk6, which is the catalytic partner of D-type cyclins in normal B cells. Moreover, immune complexes consisting of cyclin D2 and cdk4 or cyclin D3 and cdk4 were both functional and phosphorylated the RB protein in vitro. The cell cycle inhibitor p27 plays a pivotal role in cell cycle progression of B lymphocytes and has been shown to be overexpressed in B-CLL cells. P27 was rapidly downregulated in B-CLL cells even when stimulated with a non-CpG-ODN or IL-2 alone, while only moderate regulation could be observed in normal B cells. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that regulation of early cell cycle progression differs between B-CLL cells and normal B cells. These findings do not only contribute to the understanding of B-CLL pathophysiology, but might ultimately lead to the identification of new therapeutic targets.
11909966	Identification of mammalian Sds3 as an integral component of the Sin3/histone deacetylase corepressor complex.	Silencing of gene transcription involves local chromatin modification achieved through the local recruitment of large multiprotein complexes containing histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity. The mammalian corepressors mSin3A and mSin3B have been shown to play a key role in this process by tethering HDACs 1 and 2 to promoter-bound transcription factors. Similar mechanisms appear to be operative in yeast, in which epistasis experiments have established that the mSin3 and HDAC orthologs (SIN3 and RPD3), along with a novel protein, SDS3, function in the same repressor pathway. Here, we report the identification of a component of the mSin3-HDAC complex that bears homology to yeast SDS3, physically associates with mSin3 proteins in vivo, represses transcription in a manner that is partially dependent on HDAC activity, and enables HDAC1 catalytic activity in vivo. That key physical and functional properties are also shared by yeast SDS3 underscores the central role of the Sin3-HDAC-Sds3 complex in eukaryotic cell biology, and the discovery of mSds3 in mammalian cells provides a new avenue for modulating the activity of this complex in human disease.
11919194	Colocalization, physical, and functional interaction between Werner and Bloom syndrome proteins.	The RecQ helicase family comprises a conserved group of proteins implicated in several aspects of DNA metabolism. Three of the family members are defective in heritable diseases characterized by abnormal growth, premature aging, and predisposition to malignancies. These include the WRN and BLM gene products that are defective in Werner and Bloom syndromes, disorders which share many phenotypic and cellular characteristics including spontaneous genomic instability. Here, we report a physical and functional interaction between BLM and WRN. These proteins were coimmunoprecipitated from a nuclear matrix-solubilized fraction, and the purified recombinant proteins were shown to interact directly. Moreover, BLM and WRN colocalized to nuclear foci in three human cell lines. Two regions of WRN that mediate interaction with BLM were identified, and one of these was localized to the exonuclease domain of WRN. Functionally, BLM inhibited the exonuclease activity of WRN. This is the first demonstration of a physical and functional interaction between RecQ helicases. Our observation that RecQ family members interact provides new insights into the complex phenotypic manifestations resulting from the loss of these proteins.
11931757	Human origin recognition complex large subunit is degraded by ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis after initiation of DNA replication.	Eukaryotic cells possess overlapping mechanisms to ensure that DNA replication is restricted to the S phase of the cell cycle. The levels of hOrc1p, the largest subunit of the human origin recognition complex, vary during the cell division cycle. In rapidly proliferating cells, hOrc1p is expressed and targeted to chromatin as cells exit mitosis and prereplicative complexes are formed. Later, as cyclin A accumulates and cells enter S phase, hOrc1p is ubiquitinated on chromatin and then degraded. hOrc1p destruction occurs through the proteasome and is signaled in part by the SCF(Skp2) ubiquitin-ligase complex. Other hORC subunits are stable throughout the cell cycle. The regulation of hOrc1p may be an important mechanism in maintaining the ploidy in human cells.
11940652	Cdc42 regulation of kinase activity and signaling by the yeast p21-activated kinase Ste20.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae kinase Ste20 is a member of the p21-activated kinase (PAK) family with several functions, including pheromone-responsive signal transduction. While PAKs are usually activated by small G proteins and Ste20 binds Cdc42, the role of Cdc42-Ste20 binding has been controversial, largely because Ste20 lacking its entire Cdc42-binding (CRIB) domain retains kinase activity and pheromone response. Here we show that, unlike CRIB deletion, point mutations in the Ste20 CRIB domain that disrupt Cdc42 binding also disrupt pheromone signaling. We also found that Ste20 kinase activity is stimulated by GTP-bound Cdc42 in vivo and this effect is blocked by the CRIB point mutations. Moreover, the Ste20 CRIB and kinase domains bind each other, and mutations that disrupt this interaction cause hyperactive kinase activity and bypass the requirement for Cdc42 binding. These observations demonstrate that the Ste20 CRIB domain is autoinhibitory and that this negative effect is antagonized by Cdc42 to promote Ste20 kinase activity and signaling. Parallel results were observed for filamentation pathway signaling, suggesting that the requirement for Cdc42-Ste20 interaction is not qualitatively different between the mating and filamentation pathways. While necessary for pheromone signaling, the role of the Cdc42-Ste20 interaction does not require regulation by pheromone or the pheromone-activated G beta gamma complex, because the CRIB point mutations also disrupt signaling by activated forms of the kinase cascade scaffold protein Ste5. In total, our observations indicate that Cdc42 converts Ste20 to an active form, while pathway stimuli regulate the ability of this active Ste20 to trigger signaling through a particular pathway.
11955446	Wnt/wingless signaling requires BCL9/legless-mediated recruitment of pygopus to the nuclear beta-catenin-TCF complex.	Wnt/Wingless signaling controls many fundamental processes during animal development. Wnt transduction is mediated by the association of beta-catenin with nuclear TCF DNA binding factors. Here we report the identification of two segment polarity genes in Drosophila, legless (lgs), and pygopus (pygo), and we show that their products are required for Wnt signal transduction at the level of nuclear beta-catenin. Lgs encodes the homolog of human BCL9, and we provide genetic and molecular evidence that these proteins exert their function by physically linking Pygo to beta-catenin. Our results suggest that the recruitment of Pygo permits beta-catenin to transcriptionally activate Wnt target genes and raise the possibility that a deregulation of these events may play a causal role in the development of B cell malignancies.
11955449	Expansion of the cell plate in plant cytokinesis requires a kinesin-like protein/MAPKKK complex.	The tobacco mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase NPK1 regulates lateral expansion of the cell plate at cytokinesis. Here, we show that the kinesin-like proteins NACK1 and NACK2 act as activators of NPK1. Biochemical analysis suggests that direct binding of NACK1 to NPK1 stimulates kinase activity. NACK1 is accumulated specifically in M phase and colocalized with NPK1 at the phragmoplast equator. Overexpression of a truncated NACK1 protein that lacks the motor domain disrupts NPK1 concentration at the phragmoplast equator and cell plate formation. Incomplete cytokinesis is also observed when expression of NACK1 and NACK2 is repressed by virus-induced gene silencing and in embryonic cells from Arabidopsis mutants in which a NACK1 ortholog is disrupted. Thus, we conclude that expansion of the cell plate requires NACK1/2 to regulate the activity and localization of NPK1.
11956649	Interaction of the small GTPase Rac3 with NRBP, a protein with a kinase-homology domain.	The family of Rac small GTPases including Rac1, Rac2 and Rac3 regulate numerous cellular processes. Since the cellular functions of Rac3 have not been defined, constitutively active V12Rac3 was used to identify targets that transduce its signals. We here identify human NRBP as a Rac family-interacting protein. NRBP formed a complex with activated Rac3. NRBP contains a kinase-homology domain and exhibits an associated kinase activity. NRBP represents a novel family of evolutionarily conserved proteins with homologs in C. elegans, D. melanogaster, mouse and human. Overexpression of NRBP in COS-1 cells failed to activate possible downstream targets of Rac3 including the JNK pathway, the p38 pathway or actin cytoskeletal rearrangements. Also, NRBP failed to co-localize with actin-based stress fibers or microspikes, or with the subcortical actin. However, overexpression of NRBP caused a dramatic redistribution of the Golgi-associated marker p58 to more peripheral locations within the cell, consistent with an impairment of the ER to Golgi transport. Immunocytochemistry showed that NRBP and activated Rac3 co-localized to endomembranes and at the cell periphery in lamellipodia. These results suggest that NRBP functions in subcellular trafficking and may be directed to specific subcellular locations through interaction with small GTPases of the Rho family.
11972033	Cys-328 of IscS and Cys-63 of IscU are the sites of disulfide bridge formation in a covalently bound IscS/IscU complex: implications for the mechanism of iron-sulfur cluster assembly.	IscS and IscU from Escherichia coli cooperate with each other in the biosynthesis of iron-sulfur clusters. IscS catalyzes the desulfurization of L-cysteine to produce L-alanine and sulfur. Cys-328 of IscS attacks the sulfur atom of L-cysteine, and the sulfane sulfur derived from L-cysteine binds to the Sgamma atom of Cys-328. In the course of the cluster assembly, IscS and IscU form a covalent complex, and a sulfur atom derived from L-cysteine is transferred from IscS to IscU. The covalent complex is thought to be essential for the cluster biogenesis, but neither the nature of the bond connecting IscS and IscU nor the residues involved in the complex formation have been determined, which have thus far precluded the mechanistic analyses of the cluster assembly. We here report that a covalent bond is formed between Cys-328 of IscS and Cys-63 of IscU. The bond is a disulfide bond, not a polysulfide bond containing sulfane sulfur between the two cysteine residues. We also found that Cys-63 of IscU is essential for the IscU-mediated activation of IscS: IscU induced a six-fold increase in the cysteine desulfurase activity of IscS, whereas the IscU mutant with a serine substitution for Cys-63 had no effect on the activity. Based on these findings, we propose a mechanism for an early stage of iron-sulfur cluster assembly: the sulfur transfer from IscS to IscU is initiated by the attack of Cys-63 of IscU on the Sgamma atom of Cys-328 of IscS that is bound to sulfane sulfur derived from L-cysteine.
11980910	Mirk protein kinase is activated by MKK3 and functions as a transcriptional activator of HNF1alpha.	Mirk/Dyrk1B is an arginine-directed serine/threonine protein kinase that is expressed at low levels in most normal tissues but at elevated levels in many tumor cell lines and in normal skeletal muscle. Colon carcinoma cell lines stably overexpressing Mirk proliferated in serum-free medium, but the mechanism of Mirk action is unknown. DCoHm (dimerization cofactor of hepatocyte nuclear factor 1alpha ( HNF1alpha) from muscle), a novel gene of the DCoH family with 78% amino acid identity to DCoH, was identified as a Mirk-binding protein by yeast two-hybrid analysis and cloned. Mirk co-immunoprecipitated with DCoHm and bound to DCoHm in glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays. DCoH stabilizes HNF1alpha as a dimer and enhances its transcriptional activity on the beta-fibrinogen promoter reporter, and DCoHm had similar activity. Mirk enhanced HNF1alpha transcriptional activity in a dose-dependent manner, whereas two kinase-inactive Mirk mutants and a Mirk N-terminal deletion mutant did not. Mirk, DCoHm, and HNF1alpha formed a complex. Mirk bound to a specific region within the CREB-binding protein-binding region of HNF1alpha and phosphorylated HNF1alpha at a site adjacent to the Mirk-binding region. Conversely, the HNF1alpha binding domain was located within the first five conserved kinase subdomains of Mirk. Mirk co-immunoprecipitated with the MAPK kinase MKK3, an upstream activator of p38. MKK3 enhanced Mirk kinase activity and the transcriptional activation of HNF1alpha by Mirk, suggesting that Mirk, like p38, is activated by certain environmental stress agents. The Mirk-binding protein DCoH has been shown to be selectively expressed in colon carcinomas but not in normal tissue. Mirk may function as an HNF1alpha transcriptional activator in response to an MKK3-mediated stress signal, and the selective expression of DCoH could restrict the Mirk response to carcinoma cells.
12006496	PIF4, a phytochrome-interacting bHLH factor, functions as a negative regulator of phytochrome B signaling in Arabidopsis.	Plants sense and respond to red and far-red light using the phytochrome (phy) family of photoreceptors. However, the mechanism of light signal transduction is not well defined. Here, we report the identification of a new mutant Arabidopsis locus, srl2 (short under red-light 2), which confers selective hypersensitivity to continuous red, but not far-red, light. This hypersensitivity is eliminated in srl2phyB, but not srl2phyA, double mutants, indicating that this locus functions selectively and negatively in phyB signaling. The SRL2 gene encodes a bHLH factor, designated PIF4 (phytochrome-interacting factor 4), which binds selectively to the biologically active Pfr form of phyB, but has little affinity for phyA. Despite its hypersensitive morphological phenotype, the srl2 mutant displays no perturbation of light-induced expression of marker genes for chloroplast development. These data suggest that PIF4 may function specifically in a branch of the phyB signaling network that regulates a subset of genes involved in cell expansion. Consistent with this proposal, PIF4 localizes to the nucleus and can bind to a G-box DNA sequence motif found in various light-regulated promoters.
12006984	Structural basis for the selective activation of Rho GTPases by Dbl exchange factors.	Activation of Rho-family GTPases involves the removal of bound GDP and the subsequent loading of GTP, all catalyzed by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) of the Dbl-family. Despite high sequence conservation among Rho GTPases, Dbl proteins possess a wide spectrum of discriminatory potentials for Rho-family members. To rationalize this specificity, we have determined crystal structures of the conserved, catalytic fragments (Dbl and pleckstrin homology domains) of the exchange factors intersectin and Dbs in complex with their cognate GTPases, Cdc42 and RhoA, respectively. Structure-based mutagenesis of intersectin and Dbs reveals the key determinants responsible for promoting exchange activity in Cdc42, Rac1 and RhoA. These findings provide critical insight into the structural features necessary for the proper pairing of Dbl-exchange factors with Rho GTPases and now allow for the detailed manipulation of signaling pathways mediated by these oncoproteins in vivo.
12021283	Novel Mediator proteins of the small Mediator complex in Drosophila SL2 cells.	The Mediator complex is generally required for transcriptional regulation in species ranging from yeast to human. Throughout evolution, the functional diversity of the Mediator complex has been enhanced to meet the increasing requirements for sophisticated gene regulation. It is likely that greater structural complexity is thus required to accomplish these new, complex regulatory functions. In this study, we took systematic steps to examine various types of Mediator complexes in Drosophila melanogaster. Such efforts led to the identification of three distinct forms of Mediator complexes. In exploring their compositional and functional heterogeneity, we found that the smallest complex (C1) is highly enriched in a certain type of Drosophila cells and possesses novel Mediator proteins. The subunits shared among the three Mediator complexes (C1, C2, and C3) appear to form a stable modular structure that serves as a binding surface for transcriptional activator proteins. However, only C2 and C3 were able to support activated transcription in vitro. These findings suggest that different cell types may require distinct Mediator complexes, some of which may participate in nuclear processes other than the previously identified functions.
12021769	Regulation of Drosophila IAP1 degradation and apoptosis by reaper and ubcD1.	Cell death in higher organisms is negatively regulated by Inhibitor of Apoptosis Proteins (IAPs), which contain a ubiquitin ligase motif, but how ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation is regulated during apoptosis is poorly understood. Here, we report that Drosophila melanogaster IAP1 (DIAP1) auto-ubiquitination and degradation is actively regulated by Reaper (Rpr) and UBCD1. We show that Rpr, but not Hid (head involution defective), promotes significant DIAP1 degradation. Rpr-mediated DIAP1 degradation requires an intact DIAP1 RING domain. Among the mutations affecting ubiquitination, we found ubcD1, which suppresses rpr-induced apoptosis. UBCD1 and Rpr specifically bind to DIAP1 and stimulate DIAP1 auto-ubiquitination in vitro. Our results identify a novel function of Rpr in stimulating DIAP1 auto-ubiquitination through UBCD1, thereby promoting its degradation.
12021771	The DIAP1 RING finger mediates ubiquitination of Dronc and is indispensable for regulating apoptosis.	Members of the Inhibitor of Apoptosis Protein (IAP) family block activation of the intrinsic cell death machinery by binding to and neutralizing the activity of pro-apoptotic caspases. In Drosophila melanogaster, the pro-apoptotic proteins Reaper (Rpr), Grim and Hid (head involution defective) all induce cell death by antagonizing the anti-apoptotic activity of Drosophila IAP1 (DIAP1), thereby liberating caspases. Here, we show that in vivo, the RING finger of DIAP1 is essential for the regulation of apoptosis induced by Rpr, Hid and Dronc. Furthermore, we show that the RING finger of DIAP1 promotes the ubiquitination of both itself and of Dronc. Disruption of the DIAP1 RING finger does not inhibit its binding to Rpr, Hid or Dronc, but completely abrogates ubiquitination of Dronc. Our data suggest that IAPs suppress apoptosis by binding to and targeting caspases for ubiquitination.
12023030	Identification of a novel prokaryotic HEAT-repeats-containing protein which interacts with a cyanobacterial IscA homolog.	IscA homologs are known to be involved in iron-sulfur cluster formation in various organisms. Recombinant proteins of two IscA homologs from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803, designated SLR1417 and SLR1565, were purified. The absorption spectrum of purified SLR1565 was typical for [2Fe-2S] cluster-containing proteins, whereas that of SLR1417 predominantly showed the presence of the iron ion alone. In the cyanobacterial cell extracts, only SLR1565 was found to form a complex with a novel prokaryotic HEAT-repeats-containing protein, SLR1098. Thus, the two cyanobacterial IscA protein homologs exist in distinct molecular states, suggesting different cellular roles for these proteins.
12023303	Two interacting bZIP proteins are direct targets of COP1-mediated control of light-dependent gene expression in Arabidopsis.	Arabidopsis COP1 acts to repress photomorphogenesis in the absence of light. It was shown that in the dark, COP1 directly interacts with the bZIP transcription factor HY5, a positive regulator of photomorphogenesis, and promotes its proteasome-mediated degradation. Here we identify a novel bZIP protein HYH, as a new target of COP1. We identify a physical and genetic interaction between HYH and COP1 and show that this interaction results in dark-specific degradation of HYH. Genetic analysis indicates that HYH is predominantly involved in blue-light regulation of development and gene expression, and that the function of HYH in part overlaps with that of HY5. The accumulation of HYH protein, not the mRNA, is dependent on the presence of HY5. Our data suggest that HYH and HY5 can, respectively, act as heterodimers and homodimers, thus mediating light-regulated expression of overlapping as well as distinct target genes. We propose that COP1 mediates light control of gene expression through targeted degradation of multiple photomorphogenesis-promoting transcription factors in the nucleus.
12048214	Cooperative binding of the cytoplasm to vacuole targeting pathway proteins, Cvt13 and Cvt20, to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate at the pre-autophagosomal structure is required for selective autophagy.	Autophagy is a catabolic membrane-trafficking mechanism involved in cell maintenance and development. Most components of autophagy also function in the cytoplasm to vacuole targeting (Cvt) pathway, a constitutive biosynthetic pathway required for the transport of aminopeptidase I (Ape1). The protein components of autophagy and the Cvt pathway include a putative complex composed of Apg1 kinase and several interacting proteins that are specific for either the Cvt pathway or autophagy. A second required complex includes a phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) 3-kinase and associated proteins that are involved in its activation and localization. The majority of proteins required for the Cvt and autophagy pathways localize to a perivacuolar pre-autophagosomal structure. We show that the Cvt13 and Cvt20 proteins are required for transport of precursor Ape1 through the Cvt pathway. Both proteins contain phox homology domains that bind PtdIns(3)P and are necessary for membrane localization to the pre-autophagosomal structure. Functional phox homology domains are required for Cvt pathway function. Cvt13 and Cvt20 interact with each other and with an autophagy-specific protein, Apg17, that interacts with Apg1 kinase. These results provide the first functional connection between the Apg1 and PtdIns 3-kinase complexes. The data suggest a role for PtdIns(3)P in the Cvt pathway and demonstrate that this lipid is required at the pre-autophagosomal structure.
12062051	Vac14 controls PtdIns(3,5)P(2) synthesis and Fab1-dependent protein trafficking to the multivesicular body.	BACKGROUND: The PtdIns3P 5-kinase Fab1 makes PtdIns(3,5)P(2), a phosphoinositide essential for retrograde trafficking between the vacuole/lysosome and the late endosome and also for trafficking of some proteins into the vacuole via multivesicular bodies (MVB). No regulators of Fab1 were identified until recently. RESULTS: Visual screening of the Eurofan II panel of S. cerevisiae deletion mutants identified YLR386w as a novel regulator of vacuolar function. Others recently identified this ORF as encoding the vacuolar inheritance gene VAC14. Like fab1 mutants, yeast lacking Vac14 have enlarged vacuoles that do not acidify correctly. FAB1 overexpression corrects these defects. vac14Delta cells make very little PtdIns(3,5)P(2), and hyperosmotic shock does not stimulate PtdIns(3,5)P(2) synthesis in the normal manner, implicating Vac14 in Fab1 regulation. We also show that, like fab1Delta mutants, vac14Delta cells fail to sort GFP-Phm5 to the MVB and thence to the vacuole: irreversible ubiquitination of GFP-Phm5 overcomes this defect. In the BY4742 genetic background, loss of Vac14 causes much more penetrant effects on phosphoinositide metabolism and vacuolar trafficking than does loss of Vac7, another regulator of Fab1. Vac14 contains motifs suggestive of a role in protein trafficking and interacts with several proteins involved in clathrin-mediated membrane sorting and phosphoinositide metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Vac14 and Vac7 are both upstream activators of Fab1-catalysed PtdIns(3,5)P(2) synthesis, with Vac14 the dominant contributor to the hierarchy of control. Vac14 is essential for the regulated synthesis of PtdIns(3,5)P(2), for control of trafficking of some proteins to the vacuole lumen via the MVB, and for maintenance of vacuole size and acidity.
12069591	Proteomic analysis of a highly active photosystem II preparation from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 reveals the presence of novel polypeptides.	A highly active oxygen-evolving photosystem II (PSII) complex was purified from the HT-3 strain of the widely used cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, in which the CP47 polypeptide has been genetically engineered to contain a polyhistidine tag at its carboxyl terminus [Bricker, T. M., Morvant, J., Masri, N., Sutton, H. M., and Frankel, L. K. (1998) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1409, 50-57]. These purified PSII centers had four manganese atoms, one calcium atom, and two cytochrome b(559) hemes each. Optical absorption and fluorescence emission spectroscopy as well as western immunoblot analysis demonstrated that the purified PSII preparation was devoid of any contamination with photosystem I and phycobiliproteins. A comprehensive proteomic analysis using a system designed to enhance resolution of low-molecular-weight polypeptides, followed by MALDI mass spectrometry and N-terminal amino acid sequencing, identified 31 distinct polypeptides in this PSII preparation. We propose a new nomenclature for the polypeptide components of PSII identified after PsbZ, which proceeds sequentially from Psb27. During this study, the polypeptides PsbJ, PsbM, PsbX, PsbY, PsbZ, Psb27, and Psb28 proteins were detected for the first time in a purified PSII complex from Synechocystis 6803. Five novel polypeptides were also identified in this preparation. They included the Sll1638 protein, which shares significant sequence similarity to PsbQ, a peripheral protein of PSII that was previously thought to be present only in chloroplasts. This work describes newly identified proteins in a highly purified cyanobacterial PSII preparation that is being widely used to investigate the structure, function, and biogenesis of this photosystem.
12084706	Wengen, a member of the Drosophila tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, is required for Eiger signaling.	We identified Wengen, the first member of the Drosophila tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily. Wengen is a type III membrane protein with conserved cysteine-rich residues (TNFR homology domain) in the extracellular domain, a hallmark of the TNFR superfamily. wengen mRNA is expressed at all stages of Drosophila development. The small-eye phenotype caused by an eye-specific overexpression of a Drosophila TNF superfamily ligand, Eiger, was dramatically suppressed by down-regulation of Wengen using RNA interference. In addition, Wengen and Eiger physically interacted with each other through their TNFR homology domain and TNF homology domain, respectively. These results suggest that Wengen can act as a component of a functional receptor for Eiger. Our identification of Wengen and further genetic analysis should provide increased understanding of the evolutionarily conserved roles of TNF/TNFR superfamily proteins in normal development, as well as in some pathophysiological conditions.
12093730	Structural basis for the reversible activation of a Rho protein by the bacterial toxin SopE.	The bacterial enteropathogen Salmonella typhimurium employs a type III secretion system to inject bacterial toxins into the host cell cytosol. These toxins transiently activate Rho family GTP-binding protein-dependent signaling cascades to induce cytoskeletal rearrangements. One of these translocated Salmonella toxins, SopE, can activate Cdc42 in a Dbl-like fashion despite its lack of sequence similarity to Dbl-like proteins, the Rho-specific eukaryotic guanine nucleotide exchange factors. To elucidate the mechanism of SopE-mediated guanine nucleotide exchange, we have analyzed the structure of the complex between a catalytic fragment of SopE and Cdc42. SopE binds to and locks the switch I and switch II regions of Cdc42 in a conformation that promotes guanine nucleotide release. This conformation is strikingly similar to that of Rac1 in complex with the eukaryotic Dbl-like exchange factor Tiam1. However, the catalytic domain of SopE has an entirely different architecture from that of Tiam1 and interacts with the switch regions via different amino acids. Therefore, SopE represents the first example of a non-Dbl-like protein capable of inducing guanine nucleotide exchange in Rho family proteins.
12117771	Protocadherin LKC, a new candidate for a tumor suppressor of colon and liver cancers, its association with contact inhibition of cell proliferation.	Protocadherins are a major subfamily of the cadherin superfamily, but little is known about their functions and intracellular signal transduction. We cloned a novel human protocadherin gene, containing seven EC domains, and identified functional aspects of this gene. The gene was predominantly expressed in liver, kidney and colon tissues, and was thus designated Protocadherin LKC. The expression of Protocadherin LKC is markedly reduced in cancers arising from these tissues at both transcriptional and protein levels. To investigate the effects of Protocadherin LKC expression in colon cancer, we introduced the gene into colon cancer cell line HCT116, which does not express this gene. Significantly, Protocadherin LKC expression induced contact inhibition of cell proliferation although it did not affect growth rate. When grown to post-confluence in monolayer cells cultures, Protocadherin LKC-expressing HCT116 no longer formed multiple cell layers and showed the typical paving stone morphology of normal epithelial cells. Furthermore, expression of Protocadherin LKC suppressed tumor formation of HCT116 cells in a nude mouse model. In addition, we identified a protein, hMAST205 (microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinase-205 kDa), which interacted with Protocadherin LKC; the interaction occurring between the PDZ domain of hMAST205 and C-terminal tail of Protocadherin LKC. Our results suggest that Protocadherin LKC, which directly binds PDZ protein, is a molecular switch for contact inhibition of epithelial cells in the liver, kidney and colon tissues.
12147674	Microtubule-associated protein 1B: a neuronal binding partner for gigaxonin.	Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN), an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in GAN, is characterized cytopathologically by cytoskeletal abnormality. Based on its sequence, gigaxonin contains an NH2-terminal BTB domain followed by six kelch repeats, which are believed to be important for protein-protein interactions (Adams, J., R. Kelso, and L. Cooley. 2000. Trends Cell Biol. 10:17-24.). Here, we report the identification of a neuronal binding partner of gigaxonin. Results obtained from yeast two-hybrid screening, cotransfections, and coimmunoprecipitations demonstrate that gigaxonin binds directly to microtubule-associated protein (MAP)1B light chain (LC; MAP1B-LC), a protein involved in maintaining the integrity of cytoskeletal structures and promoting neuronal stability. Studies using double immunofluorescent microscopy and ultrastructural analysis revealed physiological colocalization of gigaxonin with MAP1B in neurons. Furthermore, in transfected cells the specific interaction of gigaxonin with MAP1B is shown to enhance the microtubule stability required for axonal transport over long distance. At least two different mutations identified in GAN patients (Bomont, P., L. Cavalier, F. Blondeau, C. Ben Hamida, S. Belal, M. Tazir, E. Demir, H. Topaloglu, R. Korinthenberg, B. Tuysuz, et al. 2000. Nat. Genet. 26:370-374.) lead to loss of gigaxonin-MAP1B-LC interaction. The devastating axonal degeneration and neuronal death found in GAN patients point to the importance of gigaxonin for neuronal survival. Our findings may provide important insights into the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders related to cytoskeletal abnormalities.
12150911	90S pre-ribosomes include the 35S pre-rRNA, the U3 snoRNP, and 40S subunit processing factors but predominantly lack 60S synthesis factors.	We report the characterization of early pre-ribosomal particles. Twelve TAP-tagged components each showed nucleolar localization, sedimented at approximately 90S on sucrose gradients, and coprecipitated both the 35S pre-rRNA and the U3 snoRNA. Thirty-five non-ribosomal proteins were coprecipitated, including proteins associated with U3 (Nop56p, Nop58p, Sof1p, Rrp9, Dhr1p, Imp3p, Imp4p, and Mpp10p) and other factors required for 18S rRNA synthesis (Nop14p, Bms1p, and Krr1p). Mutations in components of the 90S pre-ribosomes impaired 40S subunit assembly and export. Strikingly, few components of recently characterized pre-60S ribosomes were identified in the 90S pre-ribosomes. We conclude that the 40S synthesis machinery predominately associates with the 35S pre-rRNA factors, whereas factors required for 60S subunit synthesis largely bind later, showing an unexpected dichotomy in binding.
12150929	BAK1, an Arabidopsis LRR receptor-like protein kinase, interacts with BRI1 and modulates brassinosteroid signaling.	Brassinosteroids regulate plant growth and development through a protein complex that includes the leucine-rich repeat receptor-like protein kinase (LRR-RLK) brassinosteroid-insensitive 1 (BRI1). Activation tagging was used to identify a dominant genetic suppressor of bri1, bak1-1D (bri1-associated receptor kinase 1-1Dominant), which encodes an LRR-RLK, distinct from BRI1. Overexpression of BAK1 results in elongated organ phenotypes, while a null allele of BAK1 displays a semidwarfed phenotype and has reduced sensitivity to brassinosteroids (BRs). BAK1 is a serine/threonine protein kinase, and BRI1 and BAK1 interact in vitro and in vivo. Expression of a dominant-negative mutant allele of BAK1 causes a severe dwarf phenotype, resembling the phenotype of null bri1 alleles. These results indicate BAK1 is a component of BR signaling.
12169662	The F-box subunit of the SCF E3 complex is encoded by a diverse superfamily of genes in Arabidopsis.	The covalent attachment of ubiquitin is an important determinant for selective protein degradation by the 26S proteasome in plants and animals. The specificity of ubiquitination is often controlled by ubiquitin-protein ligases (or E3s), which facilitate the transfer of ubiquitin to appropriate targets. One ligase type, the SCF E3s are composed of four proteins, cullin1/Cdc53, Rbx1/Roc1/Hrt1, Skp1, and an F-box protein. The F-box protein, which identifies the targets, binds to the Skp1 component of the complex through a degenerate N-terminal approximately 60-aa motif called the F-box. Using published F-boxes as queries, we have identified 694 potential F-box genes in Arabidopsis, making this gene superfamily one of the largest currently known in plants. Most of the encoded proteins contain interaction domains C-terminal to the F-box that presumably participate in substrate recognition. The F-box proteins can be classified via a phylogenetic approach into five major families, which can be further organized into multiple subfamilies. Sequence diversity within the subfamilies suggests that many F-box proteins have distinct functions and/or substrates. Representatives of all of the major families interact in yeast two-hybrid experiments with members of the Arabidopsis Skp family supporting their classification as F-box proteins. For some, a limited preference for Skps was observed, suggesting that a hierarchical organization of SCF complexes exists defined by distinct Skp/F-box protein pairs. Collectively, the data shows that Arabidopsis has exploited the SCF complex and the ubiquitin/26S proteasome pathway as a major route for cellular regulation and that a diverse array of SCF targets is likely present in plants.
12172031	The SCF(COI1) ubiquitin-ligase complexes are required for jasmonate response in Arabidopsis.	Xie and colleagues previously isolated the Arabidopsis COI1 gene that is required for response to jasmonates (JAs), which regulate root growth, pollen fertility, wound healing, and defense against insects and pathogens. In this study, we demonstrate that COI1 associates physically with AtCUL1, AtRbx1, and either of the Arabidopsis Skp1-like proteins ASK1 or ASK2 to assemble ubiquitin-ligase complexes, which we have designated SCF(COI1). COI1(E22A), a single amino acid substitution in the F-box motif of COI1, abolishes the formation of the SCF(COI1) complexes and results in loss of the JA response. AtRbx1 double-stranded RNA-mediated genetic interference reduces AtRbx1 expression and affects JA-inducible gene expression. Furthermore, we show that the AtCUL1 component of SCF(COI1) complexes is modified in planta, where mutations in AXR1 decrease the abundance of the modified AtCUL1 of SCF(COI1) and lead to a reduction in JA response. Finally, we demonstrate that the axr1 and coi1 mutations display a synergistic genetic interaction in the double mutant. These results suggest that the COI1-mediated JA response is dependent on the SCF(COI1) complexes in Arabidopsis and that the AXR1-dependent modification of the AtCUL1 subunit of SCF(COI1) complexes is important for JA signaling.
12181313	Telomere-binding protein TRF2 binds to and stimulates the Werner and Bloom syndrome helicases.	Werner syndrome is a human premature aging disorder displaying cellular defects associated with telomere maintenance including genomic instability, premature senescence, and accelerated telomere erosion. The yeast homologue of the Werner protein (WRN), Sgs1, is required for recombination-mediated lengthening of telomeres in telomerase-deficient cells. In human cells, we report that WRN co-localizes and physically interacts with the critical telomere maintenance protein TRF2. This interaction is mediated by the RecQ conserved C-terminal region of WRN. In vitro, TRF2 demonstrates high affinity for WRN and for another RecQ family member, the Bloom syndrome protein (BLM). TRF2 interaction with either WRN or BLM results in a notable stimulation of their helicase activities. Furthermore, the WRN and BLM helicases, partnered with replication protein A, actively unwind long telomeric duplex regions that are pre-bound by TRF2. These results suggest that TRF2 functions with WRN, and possibly BLM, in a common pathway at telomeric ends.
12185076	Characterization and expression of mammalian cyclin b3, a prepachytene meiotic cyclin.	We report the identification and expression pattern of a full-length human cDNA and a partial mouse cDNA encoding cyclin B3. Cyclin B3 (CCNB3) is conserved from Caenorhabditis elegans to Homo sapiens and has an undefined meiotic function in female, but not male Drosophila melanogaster. We show that H. sapiens cyclin B3 interacts with cdk2, is localized to the nucleus, and is degraded during anaphase entry after the degradation of cyclin B1. Degradation is dependent on sequences conserved in a destruction box motif. Overexpression of nondegradable cyclin B3 blocks the mitotic cell cycle in late anaphase, and at higher doses it can interfere with progression through G(1) and entry into S phase. H. sapiens cyclin B3 mRNA and protein are detected readily in developing germ cells in the human testis and not in any other tissue. The mouse cDNA has allowed us to further localize cyclin B3 mRNA to leptotene and zygotene spermatocytes. The expression pattern of mammalian cyclin B3 suggests that it may be important for events occurring in early meiotic prophase I.
12198154	Caspase-10 is recruited to and activated at the native TRAIL and CD95 death-inducing signalling complexes in a FADD-dependent manner but can not functionally substitute caspase-8.	The involvement of the death adaptor protein FADD and the apoptosis-initiating caspase-8 in CD95 and TRAIL death signalling has recently been demonstrated by the analysis of the native death-inducing signalling complex (DISC) that forms upon ligand-induced receptor cross-linking. However, the role of caspase-10, the other death-effector-domain-containing caspase besides caspase-8, in death receptor signalling has been controversial. Here we show that caspase-10 is recruited not only to the native TRAIL DISC but also to the native CD95 DISC, and that FADD is necessary for its recruitment to and activation at these two protein complexes. With respect to the function of caspase-10, we show that it is not required for apoptosis induction. In addition, caspase-10 can not substitute for caspase-8, as the defect in apoptosis induction observed in caspase-8-deficient cells could not be rescued by overexpression of caspase-10. Finally, we demonstrate that caspase-10 is cleaved during CD95-induced apoptosis of activated T cells. These results show that caspase-10 activation occurs in primary cells, but that its function differs from that of caspase-8.
12200431	Largest subunits of the human SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex promote transcriptional activation by steroid hormone receptors.	The mammalian SWI/SNF-related complexes facilitate gene transcription by remodeling chromatin using the energy of ATP hydrolysis. The recruitment of these complexes to promoters remains poorly understood and may involve histone modifications or direct interactions with site-specific transcription factors or other cofactors. Here we report the isolation of two related but distinct cDNA clones, hOsa1 and hOsa2, that encode the largest subunits of human SWI/SNF. hOsa1 is identical to previously reported BAF250, and hOsa2 shares a high degree of sequence similarity with hOsa1. Mass spectrometric analysis, and immunoblotting with antibodies specific to hOsa1 or hOsa2 demonstrate the presence of both proteins in SWI/SNF-A but not in the related polybromo-BRG1-associated factors complex purified from HeLa cells. Co-precipitation studies indicate that hOsa1 and hOsa2 associate with BRG1 and hBRM through the C-terminal domain of hOsa. We define multiple domains within hBRM and BRG1 that interact with the hOsa C terminus. In cultured mammalian cells, hOsa1 and hOsa2 stimulate transcription by the glucocorticoid, estrogen, and androgen receptors. The glucocorticoid receptor-mediated activation is not observed with the C-terminal domain or with the hOsa2 polypeptide lacking the ARID DNA binding domain. These results suggest that hOsa1 and hOsa2 participate in promoting transcriptional activation by the steroid hormone receptors.
12215511	Role of the Arabidopsis RING-H2 protein RBX1 in RUB modification and SCF function.	The ubiquitin-related protein RUB/Nedd8 is conjugated to members of the cullin family of proteins in plants, animals, and fungi. In Arabidopsis, the RUB conjugation pathway consists of a heterodimeric E1 (AXR1-ECR1) and a RUB-E2 called RCE1. The cullin CUL1 is a subunit in SCF-type ubiquitin protein ligases (E3s), including the SCF(TIR1) complex, which is required for response to the plant hormone auxin. Our previous studies showed that conjugation of RUB to CUL1 is required for normal SCF(TIR1) function. The RING-H2 finger protein RBX1 is a subunit of SCF complexes in fungi and animals. The function of RBX1 is to bind the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 and bring it into close proximity with the E3 substrate. We have identified two Arabidopsis genes encoding RING-H2 proteins related to human RBX1. Studies of one of these proteins indicate that, as in animals and fungi, Arabidopsis RBX1 is an SCF subunit. Reduced RBX1 levels result in severe defects in growth and development. Overexpression of RBX1 increases RUB modification of CUL1. This effect is associated with reduced auxin response and severe growth defects similar to those observed in axr1 mutants. As in the axr1 mutants, RBX1 overexpression stabilizes the SCF(TIR1) substrate AXR2/IAA7. The RBX1 protein is a component of SCF complexes in Arabidopsis. In addition to its direct role in SCF E3 ligase activity, RBX1 promotes the RUB modification of CUL1 and probably functions as an E3 ligase in the RUB pathway. Hypermodification of CUL1 disrupts SCF(TIR1) function, suggesting that cycles of RUB conjugation and removal are important for SCF activity.
12217962	Functional substitution for TAF(II)250 by a retroposed homolog that is expressed in human spermatogenesis.	TAF(II)250, the largest subunit of the general transcription factor TFIID, is expressed from the human X chromosome, at least in somatic cells. In male meiosis, however, the sex chromosomes are transcriptionally silenced, while the autosomes remain active. How then are protein-encoding genes transcribed during human male meiosis? Here we present a novel autosomal human gene, TAF1L, which is homologous to TAF(II)250 and is expressed specifically in the testis, apparently in germ cells. We hypothesize that during male meiosis, transcription of protein-encoding genes relies upon TAF1L as a functional substitute for TAF(II)250. Like TAF(II)250, the human TAF1L protein can bind directly to TATA-binding protein, an essential component of TFIID. Most importantly, transfection with human TAF1L rescued the temperature-sensitive lethality of a hamster cell line mutant in TAF(II)250. TAF1L lacks introns and evidently arose by retroposition of a processed TAF(II)250 mRNA during primate evolution. The observation that TAF1L can functionally replace TAF(II)250 provides experimental support for the hypothesis that during male meiosis, autosomes provide cellular functions usually supplied by the X chromosome in somatic cells.
12242293	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase-dependent IL-1-induced signaling complexes phosphorylate TAK1 and TAB2 at the plasma membrane and activate TAK1 in the cytosol.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) plays an important role in the sequential formation and activation of IL-1-induced signaling complexes. Previous studies showed that IRAK is recruited to the IL-1-receptor complex, where it is hyperphosphorylated. We now find that the phosphorylated IRAK in turn recruits TRAF6 to the receptor complex (complex I), which differs from the previous concept that IRAK interacts with TRAF6 after it leaves the receptor. IRAK then brings TRAF6 to TAK1, TAB1, and TAB2, which are preassociated on the membrane before stimulation to form the membrane-associated complex II. The formation of complex II leads to the phosphorylation of TAK1 and TAB2 on the membrane by an unknown kinase, followed by the dissociation of TRAF6-TAK1-TAB1-TAB2 (complex III) from IRAK and consequent translocation of complex III to the cytosol. The formation of complex III and its interaction with additional cytosolic factors lead to the activation of TAK1, resulting in NF-kappaB and JNK activation. Phosphorylated IRAK remains on the membrane and eventually is ubiquitinated and degraded. Taken together, the new data reveal that IRAK plays a critical role in mediating the association and dissociation of IL-1-induced signaling complexes, functioning as an organizer and transporter in IL-1-dependent signaling.
12244100	Host cell factor-1 interacts with and antagonizes transactivation by the cell cycle regulatory factor Miz-1.	Human host cell factor-1 (HCF-1) is essential for cell cycle progression and is required, in conjunction with the herpes simplex virus transactivator VP16, for induction of viral immediate-early gene expression. We show here that HCF-1 directly binds to the Myc-interacting protein Miz-1, a transcription factor that induces cell cycle arrest at G(1), in part by directly stimulating expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p15(INK4b). A domain encompassing amino acids 750-836, contained within a subregion of HCF-1 required for cell cycle progression, was sufficient to bind Miz-1. Conversely, HCF-1 interacted with two separate regions in Miz-1: the N-terminal POZ domain and a C-terminal domain (residues 637-803) previously shown to harbor determinants for interaction with c-Myc and the coactivator p300. The latter functioned as a potent transactivation domain when tethered to DNA, indicating that HCF-1 targets a transactivation function in Miz-1. HCF-1 or a Miz-1-binding fragment of HCF-1 repressed transactivation by Gal4-Miz-1 in transfection assays. Moreover, HCF-1 repressed Miz-1-mediated transactivation of a reporter gene linked to the p15(INK4b) promoter. Protein/protein interaction studies and transient transfection assays demonstrated that HCF-1 interferes with recruitment of p300 to Miz-1, similar to what has been reported with c-Myc. Our findings identify Miz-1 as a novel HCF-1-interacting partner and illustrate cross-talk between these two proteins that may be of consequence to their respective functions in gene regulation and their opposing effects on the cell cycle.
12351681	A heterotrimeric death domain complex in Toll signaling.	Signaling from the transmembrane receptor Toll to Rel-related transcription factors regulates dorsoventral patterning of the Drosophila embryo, as well as larval and adult immunity. To identify additional pathway components, we have used double-stranded RNA interference to investigate Drosophila counterparts of genes that regulate the mammalian Rel family member NF-kappaB. Experiments in cultured cells reveal that the fly orthologue of the adaptor protein MyD88 is essential for signal transduction from Toll to a second adaptor protein, Tube. By using coimmunoprecipitation studies, we find a heterotrimeric association of the death domains of MyD88, Tube, and the protein kinase Pelle. Site-directed mutational analyses of interaction sites defined by crystallographic studies demonstrate that Tube recruits MyD88 and Pelle into the heterotrimer by two distinct binding surfaces on the Tube death domain. Furthermore, functional assays confirm that the formation of this heterotrimer is critical for signal transduction by the Toll pathway.
12364596	Human Mcm proteins at a replication origin during the G1 to S phase transition.	Previous work with yeast cells and with Xenopus egg extracts had shown that eukaryotic pre-replication complexes assemble on chromatin in a step-wise manner whereby specific loading factors promote the recruitment of essential Mcm proteins at pre-bound origin recognition complexes (ORC with proteins Orc1p-Orc6p). While the order of assembly--Mcm binding follows ORC binding--seems to be conserved in cycling mammalian cells in culture, it has not been determined whether mammalian Mcm proteins associate with ORC-bearing chromatin sites. We have used a chromatin immunoprecipitation approach to investigate the site of Mcm binding in a genomic region that has previously been shown to contain an ORC-binding site and an origin of replication. Using chromatin from HeLa cells in G1 phase, antibodies against Orc2p as well as antibodies against Mcm proteins specifically immunoprecipitate chromatin enriched for a DNA region that includes a replication origin. However, with chromatin from cells in S phase, only Orc2p-specific antibodies immunoprecipitate the origin-containing DNA region while Mcm-specific antibodies immunoprecipitate chromatin with DNA from all parts of the genomic region investigated. Thus, human Mcm proteins first assemble at or adjacent to bound ORC and move to other sites during genome replication.
12368261	A Drosophila fragile X protein interacts with components of RNAi and ribosomal proteins.	Fragile X syndrome is a common form of inherited mental retardation caused by the loss of FMR1 expression. The FMR1 gene encodes an RNA-binding protein that associates with translating ribosomes and acts as a negative translational regulator. In Drosophila, the fly homolog of the FMR1 protein (dFMR1) binds to and represses the translation of an mRNA encoding of the microtuble-associated protein Futsch. We have isolated a dFMR1-associated complex that includes two ribosomal proteins, L5 and L11, along with 5S RNA. The dFMR1 complex also contains Argonaute2 (AGO2) and a Drosophila homolog of p68 RNA helicase (Dmp68). AGO2 is an essential component for the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), a sequence-specific nuclease complex that mediates RNA interference (RNAi) in Drosophila. We show that Dmp68 is also required for efficient RNAi. We further show that dFMR1 is associated with Dicer, another essential component of the RNAi pathway, and microRNAs (miRNAs) in vivo, suggesting that dFMR1 is part of the RNAi-related apparatus. Our findings suggest a model in which the RNAi and dFMR1-mediated translational control pathways intersect in Drosophila. Our findings also raise the possibility that defects in an RNAi-related machinery may cause human disease.
12379646	Tissue-specific structure/function differentiation of the liver isoform of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase.	The crystal structures of the human liver 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase in three different liganding states were determined and compared with those of the rat testis isozyme. A set of amino acid sequence heterogeneity from the two distinct genes encoding the two different tissue isozymes leads to both global and local conformational differences that may cause the differences in catalytic properties of the two isozymes. The sequence differences in a beta-hairpin loop in the kinase domain causes a translational shift of several hydrophobic interactions in the dimeric contact region, and its propagation to the domains interface results in a 5 degrees twist of the entire bisphosphatase domain relative to the kinase domain. The bisphosphatase domain twist allows the dimeric interactions between the bisphosphatase domains, which are negligible in the testis enzyme, and as a result, the conformational stability of the domain is increased. Sequence polymorphisms also confer small but significant structural dissimilarities in the substrate-binding loops, allowing the differentiated catalytic properties between the two different tissue-type isozymes. Whereas the polymorphic sequence at the bisphosphatase-active pocket suggests a more suitable substrate binding, a similar extent of sequence differences at the kinase-active pocket confers a different mechanism of substrates bindings to the kinase-active pocket. It includes the ATP-sensitive unwinding of the switch helix alpha5, which is a characteristic ATP-dependent conformational change in the testis form. The sequence-dependent structural difference disallows the liver kinase to follow the ATP-switch mechanism. Altogether these suggest that the liver isoform has structural features more appropriate for an elevated bisphosphatase activity, compared with that of the testis form. The structural predisposition for bisphosphatase activity in the liver isozyme is consistent with the liver-unique glucose metabolic pathway, gluconeogenesis.
12381738	The AtRbx1 protein is part of plant SCF complexes, and its down-regulation causes severe growth and developmental defects.	Recently in yeast and animal cells, one particular class of ubiquitin ligase (E3), called the SCF, was demonstrated to regulate diverse processes including cell cycle and development. In plants SCF-dependent proteolysis is also involved in different developmental and hormonal regulations. To further investigate the function of SCF, we characterized at the molecular level the Arabidopsis RING-H2 finger protein AtRbx1. We demonstrated that the plant gene is able to functionally complement a yeast knockout mutant strain and showed that AtRbx1 protein interacts physically with at least two members of the Arabidopsis cullin family (AtCul1 and AtCul4). AtRbx1 also associates with AtCul1 and the Arabidopsis SKP1-related proteins in planta, indicating that it is part of plant SCF complexes. AtRbx1 mRNAs accumulate in various tissues of the plant, but at higher levels in tissues containing actively dividing cells. Finally to study the function of the gene in planta, we either overexpressed AtRbx1 or reduced its expression by a dsRNA strategy. Down-regulation of AtRbx1 impaired seedling growth and development, indicating that the gene is essential in plants. Furthermore, the AtRbx1-silenced plants showed a reduced level of AtCul1 protein, but accumulated higher level of cyclin D3.
12386165	Cation chloride cotransporters interact with the stress-related kinases Ste20-related proline-alanine-rich kinase (SPAK) and oxidative stress response 1 (OSR1).	Cells respond to stress stimuli by mounting specific responses. During osmotic and oxidative stress, cation chloride cotransporters, e.g. Na-K-2Cl and K-Cl cotransporters, are activated to maintain fluid/ion homeostasis. Here we report the interaction of the stress-related serine-threonine kinases Ste20-related proline-alanine-rich kinase (SPAK) and oxidative stress response 1 (OSR1) with the cotransporters KCC3, NKCC1, and NKCC2 but not KCC1 and KCC4. The interaction was identified using yeast two-hybrid assays and confirmed via glutathione S-transferase pull-down experiments. Evidence for in vivo interaction was established by co-immunoprecipitation of SPAK from mouse brain with anti-NKCC1 antibody. The interacting region of both kinases comprises the last 100 amino acids of the protein. The SPAK/OSR1 binding motif on the cotransporters consists of nine residues, starting with an (R/K)FX(V/I) sequence followed by five additional residues that are essential for binding but for which no consensus was found. Immunohistochemical analysis of choroid plexus epithelium revealed co-expression of NKCC1 and SPAK on the apical membrane. In contrast, in choroid plexus epithelium from NKCC1 null mice, SPAK immunostaining was found in the cytoplasm. We conclude that several cation chloride co-transporters interact with SPAK and/or OSR1, and we hypothesize that this interaction might play a role during the initiation of the cellular stress response.
12391157	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Bzz1p is implicated with type I myosins in actin patch polarization and is able to recruit actin-polymerizing machinery in vitro.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the WASP (Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein) homologue Las17p (also called Bee1p) is an important component of cortical actin patches. Las17p is part of a high-molecular-weight protein complex that regulates Arp2/3 complex-dependent actin polymerization at the cell cortex and that includes the type I myosins Myo3p and Myo5p and verprolin (Vrp1p). To identify other factors implicated with this complex in actin regulation, we isolated proteins that bind to Las17p by two-hybrid screening and affinity chromatography. Here, we report the characterization of Lsb7/Bzz1p (for Las seventeen binding protein 7), an Src homology 3 (SH3) domain protein that interacts directly with Las17p via a polyproline-SH3 interaction. Bzz1p coimmunoprecipitates in a complex with Las17p, Vrp1p, Myo3/5p, Bbc1p, Hsp70p, and actin. It colocalizes with cortical actin patches and with Las17p. This localization is dependent on Las17p, but not on F-actin. Bzz1p interacts physically and genetically with type I myosins. While deletion of BZZ1 shows no obvious phenotype, simultaneous deletion of the BZZ1, MYO3, and MYO5 genes is lethal. Overexpression of Bzz1p inhibits cell growth, and a bzz1Delta myo5Delta double mutant is unable to restore actin polarity after NaCl stress. Finally, Bzz1p in vitro is able to recruit a functional actin polymerization machinery through its SH3 domains. Its interactions with Las17p, Vrp1p, and the type I myosins are essential for this process. This suggests that Bzz1p could be implicated in the regulation of actin polymerization.
12395189	Ovule-specific MADS-box proteins have conserved protein-protein interactions in monocot and dicot plants.	OsMADS13 is a rice MADS-box gene that is specifically expressed in developing ovules. The amino acid sequence of OsMADS13 shows 74% similarity to those of FLORAL BINDING PROTEIN 7 (FBP7) and FBP11, the products of two MADS-box genes that are necessary and sufficient to determine ovule identity in Petunia. To assess whether OsMADS13, the putative rice ortholog of FBP7 and FBP11, has an equivalent function, several analyses were performed. Ectopic expression of FBP7 and FBP11 in Petunia results in ectopic ovule formation on sepals and petals. Here we show that ectopic expression of OsMADS13 in rice and Arabidopsis does not result in the formation of such structures. Furthermore, ectopic expression of FBP7 and FBP11 in Arabidopsis also fails to induce ectopic ovule formation. To determine whether protein-protein interactions involving putative class D MADS-box proteins have been conserved, yeast two-hybrid assays were performed. These experiments resulted in the identification of three putative partners of OsMADS13, all of them encoded by AGL2-like genes. Interestingly the Petunia FBP7 protein also interacts with AGL2-like proteins. The evolutionary conservation of the MADS-box protein partners of these ovule-specific factors was confirmed by exchange experiments which showed that the protein partners of OsMADS13 interact with FBP7 and vice versa.
12395193	The vesicular transport protein Cgp1p/Vps54p/Tcs3p/Luv1p is required for the integrity of the actin cytoskeleton.	The CGP1 gene was identified in a screen for mutations that were synthetic lethal in combination with a deletion of the gene (CPF1) for centromere and promoter factor 1. Cells deleted for CGP1 showed reduced viability, were temperature sensitive for growth and exhibited altered sensitivity to microtubule-destabilizing drugs. Furthermore, Deltacgp1 cells showed increased rates of loss of a circular minichromosome and defects in the positioning of the short mitotic spindle. Further phenotypic analysis of Deltacgp1 cells revealed that loss of Cgp1p function led to severe depolarization of the actin cytoskeleton. In addition, cells deleted for CGP1 were hypersensitive to the actin-disrupting compound Latrunculin-A, exhibited strongly reduced polarized localization of the unconventional myosin Myo2p, and showed defects in other actin-related processes, such as shmoo formation and cell wall integrity. Cgp1p was recently identified by several groups as Vps54p, which is a member of the VFT complex that is involved in vesicular protein transport at the level of the late Golgi, acting as a tethering factor. Our data show for the first time that Cgp1p/Vps54p links aspects of vesicular protein transport with the organization of the actin cytoskeleton.
12397177	Potentiation of serum response factor activity by a family of myocardin-related transcription factors.	Myocardin is a SAP (SAF-A/B, Acinus, PIAS) domain transcription factor that associates with serum response factor (SRF) to potently enhance SRF-dependent transcription. Here we describe two myocardin-related transcription factors (MRTFs), A and B, that also interact with SRF and stimulate its transcriptional activity. Whereas myocardin is expressed specifically in cardiac and smooth muscle cells, MRTF-A and -B are expressed in numerous embryonic and adult tissues. In SRF-deficient embryonic stem cells, myocardin and MRTFs are unable to activate SRF-dependent reporter genes, confirming their dependence on SRF. Myocardin and MRTFs comprise a previously uncharacterized family of SRF cofactors with the potential to modulate SRF target genes in a wide range of tissues.
12419185	NBS1 localizes to gamma-H2AX foci through interaction with the FHA/BRCT domain.	DNA double-strand breaks represent the most potentially serious damage to a genome; hence, many repair proteins are recruited to nuclear damage sites by as yet poorly characterized sensor mechanisms. Here, we show that NBS1, the gene product defective in Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS), physically interacts with histone, rather than damaged DNA, by direct binding to gamma-H2AX. We also demonstrate that NBS1 binding can occur in the absence of interaction with hMRE11 or BRCA1. Furthermore, this NBS1 physical interaction was reduced when anti-gamma-H2AX antibody was introduced into normal cells and was also delayed in AT cells, which lack the kinase activity for phosphorylation of H2AX. NBS1 has no DNA binding region but carries a combination of the fork-head associated (FHA) and the BRCA1 C-terminal domains (BRCT). We show that the FHA/BRCT domain of NBS1 is essential for this physical interaction, since NBS1 lacking this domain failed to bind to gamma-H2AX in cells, and a recombinant FHA/BRCT domain alone can bind to recombinant gamma-H2AX. Consequently, the FHA/BRCT domain is likely to have a crucial role for both binding to histone and for relocalization of hMRE11/hRAD50 nuclease complex to the vicinity of DNA damage.
12445118	COI1 links jasmonate signalling and fertility to the SCF ubiquitin-ligase complex in Arabidopsis.	Jasmonates (JAs) regulate Arabidopsis thaliana wound and defence responses, pollen development, and stress-related growth inhibition. Significantly, each of these responses requires COI1, an F-box protein. Other F-box proteins interact with SKP1 and cullin proteins to form SCF complexes that selectively recruit regulatory proteins targeted for ubiquitination. To determine whether COI1 also functions in an SCF complex, we have characterized Arabidopsis proteins that bind to COI1. An Arabidopsis cDNA expression library was screened in yeast for clones that produce proteins which can bind to COI1. We recovered two SKP1 homologues and a histone deacetylase. The Arabidopsis F-box protein TIR1 interacted with SKP1 proteins, but not with the histone deacetylase. Mutant COI1 proteins revealed that the F-box is required for interaction with SKP1s, but that sequences in leucine-rich repeat domains are required for interaction with the histone deacetylase. Epitope-tagged COI1 was introduced into Arabidopsis plants and cell cultures. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed the interaction in planta of COI1 with SKP1-like proteins and histone deacetylase, and also indicated that COI1 interacted with cullin. These results suggest that COI1 forms an SCFCOI1 complex in vivo. COI1 is therefore expected to form a functional E3-type ubiquitin ligase in plants and to regulate expression of jasmonate responsive genes, possibly by targeted ubiquitination of a histone deacetylase.
12446563	COP9 signalosome components play a role in the mating pheromone response of S. cerevisiae.	A family of genetically and structurally homologous complexes, the proteasome lid, Cop9 signalosome (CSN) and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3, mediate different regulatory pathways. The CSN functions in numerous eukaryotes as a regulator of development and signaling, yet until now no evidence for a complex has been found in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We identified a group of proteins, including a homolog of Csn5/Jab1 and four uncharacterized PCI components, that interact in a manner suggesting they form a complex analogous to the CSN in S. cerevisiae. These newly identified subunits play a role in adaptation to pheromone signaling. Deletants for individual subunits enhance pheromone response and increase mating efficiency. Overexpression of individual subunits or a human homolog mitigates sst2-induced pheromone sensitivity. Csi1, a novel CSN interactor, exhibits opposite phenotypes. Deletants also accumulate Cdc53/cullin in a Rub1-modified form; however, this role of the CSN appears to be distinct from that in the mating pathway.
12446794	The novel SLIK histone acetyltransferase complex functions in the yeast retrograde response pathway.	The SAGA complex is a conserved histone acetyltransferase-coactivator that regulates gene expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. SAGA contains a number of subunits known to function in transcription including Spt and Ada proteins, the Gcn5 acetyltransferase, a subset of TATA-binding-protein-associated factors (TAF(II)s), and Tra1. Here we report the identification of SLIK (SAGA-like), a complex related in composition to SAGA. Notably SLIK uniquely contains the protein Rtg2, linking the function of SLIK to the retrograde response pathway. Yeast harboring mutations in both SAGA and SLIK complexes displays synthetic phenotypes more severe than those of yeast with mutation of either complex alone. We present data indicating that distinct forms of the SAGA complex may regulate specific subsets of genes and that SAGA and SLIK have multiple partly overlapping activities, which play a critical role in transcription by RNA polymerase II.
12446902	Mechanisms of AIF-mediated apoptotic DNA degradation in Caenorhabditis elegans.	Apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), a mitochondrial oxidoreductase, is released into the cytoplasm to induce cell death in response to apoptotic signals. However, the mechanisms underlying this process have not been resolved. We report that inactivation of the Caenorhabditis elegans AIF homolog wah-1 by RNA interference delayed the normal progression of apoptosis and caused a defect in apoptotic DNA degradation. WAH-1 localized in C. elegans mitochondria and was released into the cytosol and nucleus by the BH3-domain protein EGL-1 in a caspase (CED-3)-dependent manner. In addition, WAH-1 associated and cooperated with the mitochondrial endonuclease CPS-6/endonuclease G (EndoG) to promote DNA degradation and apoptosis. Thus, AIF and EndoG define a single, mitochondria-initiated apoptotic DNA degradation pathway that is conserved between C. elegans and mammals.
12459498	NF-kappaB activator Act1 associates with IL-1/Toll pathway adaptor molecule TRAF6.	NF-kappaB activator 1 (Act1), also called CIKS, is a recently identified protein with NF-kappaB and AP-1 activation activities through its association with the IkappaB kinase complex. We identified and confirmed that Act1 interacts with tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6); notably, Act1 binds to TRAF6 only among TRAF family proteins. The amino-terminal half of Act1 is required for its interaction with the TRAF domain. Act1-mediated NF-kappaB activation was inhibited by a dominant-negative mutant of TRAF6 in a dose-dependent manner, and IL-1-induced NF-kappaB activation was inhibited by a high level of Act1 expression. Our results suggest that Act1 is involved in IL-1/Toll-mediated signaling through TRAF6.
12464630	A nucleolar mechanism controlling cell proliferation in stem cells and cancer cells.	The unique property of stem cells to self-renew suggests specific mechanisms that regulate their cell-cycle progression. In the present study, we identify a novel protein, nucleostemin, found in the nucleoli of CNS stem cells, embryonic stem cells, and several cancer cell lines and preferentially expressed by other stem cell-enriched populations. It contains an N-terminal basic domain and two GTP-binding motifs. When stem cells differentiate, nucleostemin expression decreases rapidly prior to cell-cycle exit both in vitro and in vivo. Depletion or overexpression of nucleostemin reduces cell proliferation in CNS stem cells and transformed cells. Mutation analysis indicates that excessive nucleostemin, particularly mutants that lack the GTP-regulatory domain, prevents cells from entering mitosis and causes apoptosis in a p53-dependent manner. The N-terminal basic domain specifies nucleolar localization, the p53 interaction, and is required for the cell death caused by overexpression. This work describes a novel nucleolar mechanism that controls the cell-cycle progression in CNS stem cells and cancer cells.
12496368	Physical and functional interaction between the transcriptional cofactor CBP and the KH domain protein Sam68.	CBP is a multifunctional transcriptional cofactor with tumor suppressor activity. The CH3 domain of CBP binds numerous transcription factors and several viral oncoproteins. We identified the Src substrate and RNA-binding protein Sam68 as novel CH3-binding protein. Sam68 binds the CH3 domain in part through a conserved FXD/EXXXL motif that is shared among several CH3-binding proteins, including the adenoviral oncoprotein E1A and the tumor suppressor p53. Sam68 and CBP interact in vivo and colocalize in nuclear sub-domains. Sam68 has potent transcriptional repression activity that is independent of its RNA binding activity, which suggests that RNA processing and regulation of gene expression by Sam68 are separable functions. Consistent with this, CBP did not stimulate the ability of Sam68 to promote Rev response element-containing mRNA export. Interestingly, Sam68 can regulate RNA processing in the absence of a Rev response element, suggesting that Sam68 functions through a novel RNA element. Together, these findings reveal a previously unidentified function for Sam68 as a transcriptional repressor and suggest that Sam68 might link cellular signaling pathways with components of the transcriptional machinery.
12504026	CAND1 binds to unneddylated CUL1 and regulates the formation of SCF ubiquitin E3 ligase complex.	The SCF ubiquitin E3 ligase regulates ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis of many regulatory proteins such as p27(Kip1), IkappaB, and beta-catenin. We report the isolation of a CUL1 binding protein, p120(CAND1). We found the majority of CUL1 is in a complex with CAND1 and ROC1 independent of SKP1 and F box protein SKP2. Both in vivo and in vitro, CAND1 prevents the binding of SKP1 and SKP2 to CUL1 while dissociation of CAND1 from CUL1 promotes the reverse reaction. Neddylation of CUL1 or the presence of SKP1 and ATP causes CAND1 dissociation. Our data suggest that CAND1 regulates the formation of the SCF complex, and its dissociation from CUL1 is coupled with the incorporation of F box proteins into the SCF complex, causing their destabilization.
12505151	Characterization of a new family of proteins that interact with the C-terminal region of the chromatin-remodeling factor CHD-3.	The two human proteins Ki-1/57 and CGI-55 have highly similar amino acid sequences but their functions are unknown. We analyzed them by yeast two-hybrid screens and found that they interact with the C-terminal region of the human chromatin-remodeling factor CHD-3 (chromo-helicase-DNA-binding domain protein-3). The interaction of CGI-55 and CHD-3 could be confirmed in vitro and in vivo by co-immunoprecipitations from Sf9 insect cells. Mapping showed that CGI-55 interacts with CHD-3 via two regions at its N- and C-terminals. The CGI-55 and Ki-1/57 mRNAs show highest expression in muscle, colon and kidney. A CGI55-GFP fusion protein was localized in the cytoplasm, nucleus and perinuclear regions of HeLa cells. These data suggest the possibility that CGI-55 and Ki-1/57 might be involved in nuclear functions like the remodeling of chromatin.
12526743	Short-interfering-RNA-mediated gene silencing in mammalian cells requires Dicer and eIF2C translation initiation factors.	RNA interference (RNAi) is the process of long, double-stranded (ds), RNA-dependent posttranscriptional gene silencing (PTGS). In lower eukaryotes, dsRNA introduced into the cytoplasm is cleaved by the RNaseIII-like enzyme, Dicer, to 21-23 nt RNA (short interfering [si] RNA), which may serve as guide for target mRNA degradation. In mammals, long-dsRNA-dependent PTGS is applicable only to a limited number of cell types, whereas siRNA synthesized in vitro is capable of effectively inducing gene silencing in a wide variety of cells. Although biochemical and genetic analyses in lower eukaryotes showed that Dicer and some PIWI family member proteins are essential for long-dsRNA-dependent PTGS, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying siRNA-based PTGS. Here, we show that Dicer and eIF2C translation initiation factors belonging to the PIWI family (eIF2C1-4) play an essential role in mammalian siRNA-mediated PTGS, most probably through synergistic interactions. Immunoprecipitation experiments suggest that, in human and mouse cells, complex formation occurs between Dicer and eIF2C1 or 2 and that the PIWI domain of eIF2C is essential for the formation of this complex.
12529443	Sam68 RNA binding protein is an in vivo substrate for protein arginine N-methyltransferase 1.	RNA binding proteins often contain multiple arginine glycine repeats, a sequence that is frequently methylated by protein arginine methyltransferases. The role of this posttranslational modification in the life cycle of RNA binding proteins is not well understood. Herein, we report that Sam68, a heteronuclear ribonucleoprotein K homology domain containing RNA binding protein, associates with and is methylated in vivo by the protein arginine N-methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1). Sam68 contains asymmetrical dimethylarginines near its proline motif P3 as assessed by using a novel asymmetrical dimethylarginine-specific antibody and mass spectrometry. Deletion of the methylation sites and the use of methylase inhibitors resulted in Sam68 accumulation in the cytoplasm. Sam68 was also detected in the cytoplasm of PRMT1-deficient embryonic stem cells. Although the cellular function of Sam68 is unknown, it has been shown to export unspliced human immunodeficiency virus RNAs. Cells treated with methylase inhibitors prevented the ability of Sam68 to export unspliced human immunodeficiency virus RNAs. Other K homology domain RNA binding proteins, including SLM-1, SLM-2, QKI-5, GRP33, and heteronuclear ribonucleoprotein K were also methylated in vivo. These findings demonstrate that RNA binding proteins are in vivo substrates for PRMT1, and their methylation is essential for their proper localization and function.
12535346	SAD: a new DOF protein from barley that activates transcription of a cathepsin B-like thiol protease gene in the aleurone of germinating seeds.	Functional analysis of hydrolase gene promoters, induced by gibberellin (GA) in aleurone cells following germination, has identified a GA-responsive complex (GARC) as a tripartite element containing a pyrimidine-box motif 5'-CCTTTT-3'. We describe here the characterization of a new barley gene (Sad gene) encoding a transcription factor (SAD) of the DNA binding with One Finger (DOF) class that binds to the pyrimidine box in vitro and activates transcription of a GA-induced protease promoter in bombarded aleurone layers. RT-PCR and in situ hybridization analyses showed that the Sad transcripts accumulated in all tissues analysed, being especially abundant in the scutellum and aleurone cells upon seed germination. The SAD protein, expressed in bacteria, binds in a specific manner to two oligonucleotides containing the sequence 5'-G/CCTTTT/C-3', derived from the promoter region of the Al21 gene encoding a cathepsin B-like cysteine protease. Although the Sad transcript accumulation did not respond to external GA-incubation in aleurone cells, in transient expression experiments in co-bombarded aleurone layers, SAD trans-activated transcription from the Al21 promoter in a similar manner as did GAMYB, a MYB protein previously shown to respond to GA and to activate several hydrolase gene promoters in barley aleurone cells. In vivo interaction between the GAMYB and SAD proteins was shown in the yeast two-hybrid system, where GAMYB potentiates the SAD trans-activation capacity through interaction with its C-terminal domain.
12565863	Effect of cisplatin treatment on speckled distribution of a serine/arginine-rich nuclear protein CROP/Luc7A.	The C-half of cisplatin resistance-associated overexpressed protein (CROP), an SR-related protein, comprises domains rich in arginine and glutamate residues (RE domain), and is rich in arginine and serine residues (RS domain). We analyzed the role of the individual domains of CROP in cellular localization, subnuclear localization, and protein-protein interaction. CROP fused with green fluorescent protein, GFP-CROP, localized exclusively to the nucleus and showed a speckled intranuclear distribution. The yeast two-hybrid system revealed that CROP interacted with SF2/ASF, an SR protein involved in RNA splicing, as well as CROP itself. The RE and RS domains were necessary for both the intranuclear speckled distribution and the protein-protein interaction. CROP was phosphorylated by mSRPK1, mSRPK2, and Clk1 in vitro, and when cells were treated with cisplatin the subnuclear distribution of GFP-CROP was changed. These results suggest that cisplatin affects RNA splicing by changing the subnuclear distribution of SR proteins including CROP.
12566447	Identification of TIFA as an adapter protein that links tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) to interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) in IL-1 receptor signaling.	Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) transduces signals from members of the Toll/interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor family by interacting with IL-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) after IRAK-1 is released from the receptor-MyD88 complex upon IL-1 stimulation. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying regulation of the IRAK-1/TRAF6 interaction are largely unknown. We have identified TIFA, a TRAF-interacting protein with a forkhead-associated (FHA) domain. The FHA domain is a motif known to bind directly to phosphothreonine and phosphoserine. In transient transfection assays, TIFA activates NFkappaBeta and c-Jun amino-terminal kinase. However, TIFA carrying a mutation that abolishes TRAF6 binding or mutations in the FHA domain that are known to abolish FHA domain binding to phosphopeptide fails to activate NFkappaBeta and c-Jun amino-terminal kinase. TIFA, when overexpressed, binds both TRAF6 and IRAK-1 and significantly enhances the IRAK-1/TRAF6 interaction. Furthermore, analysis of endogenous proteins indicates that TIFA associates with TRAF6 constitutively, whereas it associates with IRAK-1 in an IL-1 stimulation-dependent manner in vivo. Thus, TIFA is likely to mediate IRAK-1/TRAF6 interaction upon IL-1 stimulation.
12576485	Impairment of the DNA binding activity of the TATA-binding protein renders the transcriptional function of Rvb2p/Tih2p, the yeast RuvB-like protein, essential for cell growth.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, two highly conserved proteins, Rvb1p/Tih1p and Rvb2p/Tih2p, have been demonstrated to be major components of the chromatin-remodeling INO80 complex. The mammalian orthologues of these two proteins have been shown to physically associate with the TATA-binding protein (TBP) in vitro but not clearly in vivo. Here we show that yeast proteins interact with TBP under both conditions. To assess the functional importance of these interactions, we examined the effect of mutating both TIH2/RVB2 and SPT15, which encodes TBP, on yeast cell growth. Intriguingly, only those spt15 mutations that affected the ability of TBP to bind to the TATA box caused synthetic growth defects in a tih2-ts160 background. This suggests that Tih2p might be important in recruiting TBP to the promoter. A DNA microarray technique was used to identify genes differentially expressed in the tih2-ts160 strain grown at the restrictive temperature. Only 34 genes were significantly and reproducibly affected; some up-regulated and others down-regulated. We compared the transcription of several of these Tih2p target genes in both wild type and various mutant backgrounds. We found that the transcription of some genes depends on functions possessed by both Tih2p and TBP and that these functions are substantially impaired in the spt15/tih2-ts160 double mutants that confer synthetic growth defects.
12589434	Analysis of the petunia MADS-box transcription factor family.	Transcription factors are key regulators of plant development. One of the major groups of transcription factors is the MADS-box family, of which at least 80 members are encoded in the Arabidopsis genome. In this study, 23 members of the petunia MADS-box transcription factor family were investigated by Northern hybridisation, phylogenetic and yeast two-hybrid analyses. Many of the genes characterised appeared to have one or more close relatives that shared similar expression patterns. Comparison of the binding interactions of these proteins revealed that some show similar interaction patterns, and hence are likely to be functionally redundant. From an evolutionary point of view, their coding genes are probably derived from a recent duplication event. Furthermore, protein-protein interaction patterns, in combination with expression patterns and phylogenetic classification, appear to offer good criteria for the identification of functional homologues. Based on comparison of such data between petunia and Arabidopsis, functions can be predicted for several MADS-box transcription factors in both species.
12606577	Structure of Cdc42 in a complex with the GTPase-binding domain of the cell polarity protein, Par6.	Cdc42 is a small GTPase that is required for cell polarity establishment in eukaryotes as diverse as budding yeast and mammals. Par6 is also implicated in metazoan cell polarity establishment and asymmetric cell divisions. Cdc42.GTP interacts with proteins that contain a conserved sequence called a CRIB motif. Uniquely, Par6 possesses a semi-CRIB motif that is not sufficient for binding to Cdc42. An adjacent PDZ domain is also necessary and is required for biological effects of Par6. Here we report the crystal structure of a complex between Cdc42 and the Par6 GTPase-binding domain. The semi-CRIB motif forms a beta-strand that inserts between the four strands of Cdc42 and the three strands of the PDZ domain to form a continuous eight-stranded sheet. Cdc42 induces a conformational change in Par6, detectable by fluorescence resonance energy transfer spectroscopy. Nuclear magnetic resonance studies indicate that the semi-CRIB motif of Par6 is at least partially structured by the PDZ domain. The structure highlights a novel role for a PDZ domain as a structural scaffold.
12607005	MDC1 is a mediator of the mammalian DNA damage checkpoint.	To counteract the continuous exposure of cells to agents that damage DNA, cells have evolved complex regulatory networks called checkpoints to sense DNA damage and coordinate DNA replication, cell-cycle arrest and DNA repair. It has recently been shown that the histone H2A variant H2AX specifically controls the recruitment of DNA repair proteins to the sites of DNA damage. Here we identify a novel BRCA1 carboxy-terminal (BRCT) and forkhead-associated (FHA) domain-containing protein, MDC1 (mediator of DNA damage checkpoint protein 1), which works with H2AX to promote recruitment of repair proteins to the sites of DNA breaks and which, in addition, controls damage-induced cell-cycle arrest checkpoints. MDC1 forms foci that co-localize extensively with gamma-H2AX foci within minutes after exposure to ionizing radiation. H2AX is required for MDC1 foci formation, and MDC1 forms complexes with phosphorylated H2AX. Furthermore, this interaction is phosphorylation dependent as peptides containing the phosphorylated site on H2AX bind MDC1 in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. We have shown by using small interfering RNA (siRNA) that cells lacking MDC1 are sensitive to ionizing radiation, and that MDC1 controls the formation of damage-induced 53BP1, BRCA1 and MRN foci, in part by promoting efficient H2AX phosphorylation. In addition, cells lacking MDC1 also fail to activate the intra-S phase and G2/M phase cell-cycle checkpoints properly after exposure to ionizing radiation, which was associated with an inability to regulate Chk1 properly. These results highlight a crucial role for MDC1 in mediating transduction of the DNA damage signal.
12615944	Characterization of the last subunit of the Arabidopsis COP9 signalosome: implications for the overall structure and origin of the complex.	The COP9 signalosome (CSN) is an evolutionarily conserved protein complex that resembles the lid subcomplex of proteasomes. Through its ability to regulate specific proteasome-mediated protein degradation events, CSN controls multiple aspects of development. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of AtCSN2, the last uncharacterized CSN subunit from Arabidopsis. We show that the AtCSN2 gene corresponds to the previously identified FUS12 locus and that AtCSN2 copurifies with CSN, confirming that AtCSN2 is an integral component of CSN. AtCSN2 is not only able to interact with the SCF(TIR1) subunit AtCUL1, which is partially responsible for the regulatory interaction between CSN and SCF(TIR1), but also interacts with AtCUL3, suggesting that CSN is able to regulate the activity of other cullin-based E3 ligases through conserved interactions. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the duplication and subsequent divergence events that led to the genes that encode CSN and lid subunits occurred before the divergence of unicellular and multicellular eukaryotic organisms and that the CSN subunits were more conserved than the lid subunits during evolution. Comparative analyses of the subunit interaction of CSN revealed a set of conserved subunit contacts and resulted in a model of CSN subunit topology, some aspects of which were substantiated by in vivo cross-link tests.
12620231	The human Sir2 ortholog, SIRT2, is an NAD+-dependent tubulin deacetylase.	The silent information regulator 2 protein (Sir2p) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is an NAD-dependent histone deacetylase that plays a critical role in transcriptional silencing. Here, we report that a human ortholog of Sir2p, sirtuin type 2 (SIRT2), is a predominantly cytoplasmic protein that colocalizes with microtubules. SIRT2 deacetylates lysine-40 of alpha-tubulin both in vitro and in vivo. Knockdown of SIRT2 via siRNA results in tubulin hyperacetylation. SIRT2 colocalizes and interacts in vivo with HDAC6, another tubulin deacetylase. Enzymatic analysis of recombinant SIRT2 in comparison to a yeast homolog of Sir2 protein (Hst2p) shows a striking preference of SIRT2 for acetylated tubulin peptide as a substrate relative to acetylated histone H3 peptide. These observations establish SIRT2 as a bona fide tubulin deacetylase.
12620389	Novel raf kinase protein-protein interactions found by an exhaustive yeast two-hybrid analysis.	We have performed an exhaustive unbiased yeast two-hybrid analysis to identify interaction partners of two human Raf kinase isoforms, A-Raf and C-Raf, using their N-terminal regulatory domain as "bait." A total of 20 different human proteins were found to interact with Raf isoforms. Several of these interactions were novel and an extensive bioinformatics evaluation was performed for each. The novel putative interactions include a signalosome component, TOPK/PBK kinase, and two new putative protein phosphatases. The cysteine-rich zinc-binding domain (CRD) of Raf was found to interact with all 20 proteins and to achieve isoform-specific interactions. Since similar putative CRDs are present in a variety of protein serine-threonine kinases, the data suggest that the CRD may function as a major protein-protein interaction domain of these kinases. We propose possible functional consequences of these novel Raf interactions.
12624108	Inhibition of Bid-induced apoptosis by Bcl-2. tBid insertion, Bax translocation, and Bax/Bak oligomerization suppressed.	Bcl-2 family proteins are important regulators of apoptosis. They can be pro-apoptotic (e.g. Bid, Bax, and Bak) or anti-apoptotic (e.g. Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L)). The current study examined Bid-induced apoptosis and its inhibition by Bcl-2. Transfection of Bid led to apoptosis in HeLa cells. In these cells, Bid was processed into active forms of truncated Bid or tBid. Following processing, tBid translocated to the membrane-bound organellar fraction. Bcl-2 co-transfection inhibited Bid-induced apoptosis but did not prevent Bid processing or tBid translocation. On the other hand, Bcl-2 blocked the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c in Bid-transfected cells, suggesting actions at the mitochondrial level. Alkaline treatment stripped off tBid from the membrane-bound organellar fraction of Bid plus Bcl-2-co-transfected cells, but not from cells transfected with only Bid, suggesting inhibition of tBid insertion into mitochondrial membranes by Bcl-2. Bcl-2 also prevented Bid-induced Bax translocation from cytosol to the membrane-bound organellar fraction. Finally, Bcl-2 diminished Bid-induced oligomerization of Bax and Bak within the membrane-bound organellar fraction, shown by cross-linking experiments. In conclusion, Bcl-2 inhibited Bid-induced apoptosis at the mitochondrial level by blocking cytochrome c release, without suppressing Bid processing or activation. Critical steps blocked by Bcl-2 included tBid insertion, Bax translocation, and Bax/Bak oligomerization in the mitochondrial membranes.
12634853	The membrane-tethering protein p115 interacts with GBF1, an ARF guanine-nucleotide-exchange factor.	The membrane-transport factor p115 interacts with diverse components of the membrane-transport machinery. It binds two Golgi matrix proteins, a Rab GTPase, and various members of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) family. Here, we describe a novel interaction between p115 and Golgi-specific brefeldin-A-resistant factor 1 (GBF1), a guanine-nucleotide exchange factor for ADP ribosylation factor (ARF). GBF1 was identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen, using full-length p115 as bait. The interaction was confirmed biochemically, using in vitro and in vivo assays. The interacting domains were mapped to the proline-rich region of GBF1 and the head region of p115. These proteins colocalize extensively in the Golgi and in peripheral vesicular tubular clusters. Mutagenesis analysis indicates that the interaction is not required for targeting GBF1 or p115 to membranes. Expression of the p115-binding (pro-rich) region of GBF1 leads to Golgi disruption, indicating that the interaction between p115 and GBF1 is functionally relevant.
12670868	Human Sin3 deacetylase and trithorax-related Set1/Ash2 histone H3-K4 methyltransferase are tethered together selectively by the cell-proliferation factor HCF-1.	The abundant and chromatin-associated protein HCF-1 is a critical player in mammalian cell proliferation as well as herpes simplex virus (HSV) transcription. We show here that separate regions of HCF-1 critical for its role in cell proliferation associate with the Sin3 histone deacetylase (HDAC) and a previously uncharacterized human trithorax-related Set1/Ash2 histone methyltransferase (HMT). The Set1/Ash2 HMT methylates histone H3 at Lys 4 (K4), but not if the neighboring K9 residue is already methylated. HCF-1 tethers the Sin3 and Set1/Ash2 transcriptional regulatory complexes together even though they are generally associated with opposite transcriptional outcomes: repression and activation of transcription, respectively. Nevertheless, this tethering is context-dependent because the transcriptional activator VP16 selectively binds HCF-1 associated with the Set1/Ash2 HMT complex in the absence of the Sin3 HDAC complex. These results suggest that HCF-1 can broadly regulate transcription, both positively and negatively, through selective modulation of chromatin structure.
12672462	The COP9 signalosome-like complex in S. cerevisiae and links to other PCI complexes.	The COP9 signalosome (CSN), the lid subcomplex of the proteasome and translational initiation factor 3 (eIF3) share structural similarities and are often referred to as the PCI family of complexes. In multicellular eukaryotes, the CSN is highly conserved as an 8-subunit complex but in Saccharomyces cerevisiae the complex is rather divergent. We further characterize the composition and properties of the CSN in budding yeast and its interactions with these related complexes. Using the generalized profile method we identified CSN candidates, four with PCI domains: Csn9, Csn10, Pci8/Csn11, and Csn12, and one with an MPN domain, Csn5/Rri1. These proteins and an additional interactor, Csi1, were tested for pairwise interactions by yeast two-hybrid and were found to form a cluster surrounding Csn12. Csn5 and Csn12 cofractionate in a complexed form with an apparent molecular weight of roughly 250kDa. However, Csn5 migrates as a monomer in Deltacsn12 supporting the pivotal role of Csn12 in stabilizing the complex. Confocal fluorescence microscopy detects GFP-tagged Csn5 preferentially in the nucleus, whereas in absence of Csn12, Csn10, Pci8/Csn11, or Csi1, Csn5 is delocalized throughout the cell, indicating that multiple subunits are required for nuclear localization of Csn5. Two CSN subunits, Csn9 and Csi1, interact with the proteasome lid subunit Rpn5. Pci8/Csn11 has previously been shown to interact with eIF3. Together, these results point to a network of interactions between these three structurally similar, yet functionally diverse, complexes.
12681508	The products of the mitochondrial orf25 and orfB genes are FO components in the plant F1FO ATP synthase.	The F(O) portion of the mitochondrial ATP synthase contains a range of different subunits in bacteria, yeast and mammals. A search of the Arabidopsis genome identified sequence orthologs for only some of these subunits. Blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separation of Arabidopsis mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes revealed intact F(1)F(O), and separated F(1) and F(O) components. The subunits of each complex were analysed by mass spectrometry and matched to Arabidopsis genes. In the F(1)F(O) complex a series of nine known subunits were identified along with two additional proteins matching the predicted products of the mitochondrial encoded orfB and orf25 genes. The F(1) complex contained the five well-characterised F(1) subunits, while four subunits in the F(O) complex were identified: subunit 9, d subunit, and the orfB and orf25 products. Previously, orfB has been suggested as the plant equivalent of subunit 8 based on structural and sequence similarity. We propose that orf25 is the plant b subunit based on structural similarity and its presence in the F(O) complex. Chimerics of orf25, orfB, subunit 9 and subunit 6 have been associated with cytoplasmic male sterility in a variety of plant species, our additional findings now place all these proteins in the same protein complex.
12682009	The RUB/Nedd8 conjugation pathway is required for early development in Arabidopsis.	The related-to-ubiquitin (RUB) protein is post-translationally conjugated to the cullin subunit of the SCF (SKP1, Cullin, F-box) class of ubiquitin protein ligases. Although the precise biochemical function of RUB modification is unclear, studies indicate that the modification is important for SCF function. In Arabidopsis, RUB modification of CUL1 is required for normal function of SCF(TIR1), an E3 required for response to the plant hormone auxin. In this report we show that an Arabidopsis protein called RCE1 functions as a RUB-conjugating enzyme in vivo. A mutation in the RCE1 gene results in a phenotype like that of the axr1 mutant. Most strikingly, plants deficient in both RCE1 and AXR1 have an embryonic phenotype similar to mp and bdl mutants, previously shown to be deficient in auxin signaling. Based on these results, we suggest that the RUB-conjugation pathway is required for auxin-dependent pattern formation in the developing embryo. In addition, we show that RCE1 interacts directly with the RING protein RBX1 and is present in a stable complex with SCF. We propose that RBX1 functions as an E3 for RUB modification of CUL1.
12684538	A network of rice genes associated with stress response and seed development.	We used a systematic approach to build a network of genes associated with developmental and stress responses in rice by identifying interaction domains for 200 proteins from stressed and developing tissues, by measuring the associated gene expression changes in different tissues exposed to a variety of environmental, biological, and chemical stress treatments, and by localizing the cognate genes to regions of stress-tolerance trait genetic loci. The integrated data set suggests that similar genes respond to environmental cues and stresses, and some may also regulate development. We demonstrate that the data can be used to correctly predict gene function in monocots and dicots. As a result, we have identified five genes that contribute to disease resistance in Arabidopsis.
12697833	A 1-megadalton ESC/E(Z) complex from Drosophila that contains polycomblike and RPD3.	Polycomb group (PcG) proteins are required to maintain stable repression of the homeotic genes and others throughout development. The PcG proteins ESC and E(Z) are present in a prominent 600-kDa complex as well as in a number of higher-molecular-mass complexes. Here we identify and characterize a 1-MDa ESC/E(Z) complex that is distinguished from the 600-kDa complex by the presence of the PcG protein Polycomblike (PCL) and the histone deacetylase RPD3. In addition, the 1-MDa complex shares with the 600-kDa complex the histone binding protein p55 and the PcG protein SU(Z)12. Coimmunoprecipitation assays performed on embryo extracts and gel filtration column fractions indicate that, during embryogenesis E(Z), SU(Z)12, and p55 are present in all ESC complexes, while PCL and RPD3 are associated with ESC, E(Z), SU(Z)12, and p55 only in the 1-MDa complex. Glutathione transferase pulldown assays demonstrate that RPD3 binds directly to PCL via the conserved PHD fingers of PCL and the N terminus of RPD3. PCL and E(Z) colocalize virtually completely on polytene chromosomes and are associated with a subset of RPD3 sites. As previously shown for E(Z) and RPD3, PCL and SU(Z)12 are also recruited to the insertion site of a minimal Ubx Polycomb response element transgene in vivo. Consistent with these biochemical and cytological results, Rpd3 mutations enhance the phenotypes of Pcl mutants, further indicating that RPD3 is required for PcG silencing and possibly for PCL function. These results suggest that there may be multiple ESC/E(Z) complexes with distinct functions in vivo.
12702765	Fas-associated death domain protein interacts with methyl-CpG binding domain protein 4: a potential link between genome surveillance and apoptosis.	Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD) is an adaptor protein bridging death receptors with initiator caspases. Thus, its function and localization are assumed to be cytoplasmic, although the localization of endogenous FADD has not been reported. Surprisingly, the data presented here demonstrate that FADD is mainly nuclear in several adherent cell lines. Its accumulation in the nucleus and export to the cytoplasm required the phosphorylation site Ser-194, which was also required for its interaction with the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein exportin-5. Within the nucleus, FADD interacted with the methyl-CpG binding domain protein 4 (MBD4), which excises thymine from GT mismatches in methylated regions of chromatin. The MBD4-interacting mismatch repair factor MLH1 was also found in a complex with FADD. The FADD-MBD4 interaction involved the death effector domain of FADD and a region of MBD4 adjacent to the glycosylase domain. The FADD-binding region of MBD4 was downstream of a frameshift mutation that occurs in a significant fraction of human colorectal carcinomas. Consistent with the idea that MBD4 can signal to an apoptotic effector, MBD4 regulated DNA damage-, Fas ligand-, and cell detachment-induced apoptosis. The nuclear localization of FADD and its interaction with a genome surveillance/DNA repair protein that can regulate apoptosis suggests a novel function of FADD distinct from direct participation in death receptor signaling complexes.
12702766	Characterization of cells and gene-targeted mice deficient for the p53-binding kinase homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1).	The tumor suppressor p53 is regulated in part by binding to cellular proteins. We used p53 as bait in the yeast two-hybrid system and isolated homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1) as a p53-binding protein. Deletion analysis showed that amino acids 100-370 of p53 and amino acids 885-1093 of HIPK1 were sufficient for HIPK1-p53 interaction. HIPK1 was capable of autophosphorylation and specific serine phosphorylation of p53. The HIPK1 gene was highly expressed in human breast cancer cell lines and oncogenically transformed mouse embryonic fibroblasts. HIPK1 was localized to human chromosome band 1p13, a site frequently altered in cancers. Gene-targeted HIPK1-/- mice were grossly normal but oncogenically transformed HIPK1 -/- mouse embryonic fibroblasts exhibited reduced transcription of Mdm2 and were more susceptible than transformed HIPK1+/+ cells to apoptosis induced by DNA damage. Carcinogen-treated HIPK1 -/- mice developed fewer and smaller skin tumors than HIPK1+/+ mice. HIPK1 may thus play a role in tumorigenesis, perhaps by means of the regulation of p53 and/or Mdm2.
12721283	TIRP, a novel Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain-containing adapter protein involved in TIR signaling.	The Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) family members play important roles in host defense. These receptors signal through TIR domain-containing adapter proteins. In this report, we identified a novel TIR domain-containing adapter protein designated as TIRP. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments suggest that TIRP is associated with IL-1 receptors. TIRP also interacts with kinase-inactive mutants of IRAK and IRAK-4, IRAK-2, IRAK-M, and TRAF6. Overexpression of TIRP activates NF-kappaB and potentiates IL-1 receptor-mediated NF-kappaB activation. A dominant negative mutant of TIRP inhibits IL-1- but not tumor necrosis factor-triggered NF-kappaB activation. Moreover, TIRP-mediated NF-kappaB activation is inhibited by dominant negative mutants of IRAK, IRAK-2, TRAF6, and IKKbeta. Our findings suggest that TIRP is involved in IL-1-triggered NF-kappaB activation and functions upstream of IRAK, IRAK-2, TRAF6, and IKKbeta
12721299	Physical and functional interaction between protein kinase C delta and Fyn tyrosine kinase in human platelets.	An increasing number of tyrosine kinases have been shown to associate with isoforms of the protein kinase C (PKC) family. Here, we show evidence for physical and functional interaction between PKCdelta and the Src family kinase Fyn in human platelets activated by alboaggregin-A, a snake venom capable of activating both GPIb-V-IX and GPVI adhesion receptors. This interaction involves phosphorylation of PKCdelta on tyrosine and is specific in that other isoforms of PKC, PKCepsilon and lambda, which also become tyrosine-phosphorylated, do not interact with Fyn. In addition, PKCdelta does not interact with other platelet-expressed tyrosine kinases Syk, Src, or Btk. Stimulation also leads to activation of both Fyn and PKCdelta and to serine phosphorylation of Fyn within a PKC consensus sequence. Alboaggregin-A-dependent activation of Fyn is blocked by bisindolylmaleimide I, suggesting a role for PKC isoforms in regulating Fyn activity. Platelet activation with alboaggregin-A induces translocation of the two kinases from cytoplasm to the plasma membrane of platelets, as observed by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. Translocation of Fyn and PKCdelta are blocked by PP1 and bisindolylmaleimide I, showing a dependence upon Src and PKC kinase activities. Although PKC activity is required for translocation, it is not required for association between the two kinases, because this was not blocked by bisindolylmaleimide I. Rottlerin, which inhibited PKCdelta activity, did not block translocation of either PKCdelta or Fyn but potentiated platelet aggregation, 5-hydroxytryptamine secretion, and the calcium response induced by alboaggregin-A, indicating that this kinase plays a negative role in the control of these processes.
12721663	Cloning and characterization of a novel cardiac-specific kinase that interacts specifically with cardiac troponin I.	Cardiac-restricted genes play important roles in cardiovascular system. In an effort to identify such novel genes we identified a novel cardiac-specific kinase gene TNNI3K localized on 1p31.1 based on bioinformatics analyses. Sequence analysis suggested that TNNI3K is a distant family member of integrin-linked kinase. Northern blot and 76-tissue array analyses showed that TNNI3K is highly expressed in heart, but is undetectable in other tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis predominantly localized TNNI3K in the nucleus of cardiac myocytes. In vitro kinase assay showed that TNNI3K is a functional kinase. The yeast two-hybrid system showed that TNNI3K could directly interact with cardiac troponin I, results that were further confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation in vivo. Our data suggest that TNNI3K is a cardiac-specific kinase and play important roles in cardiac system.
12738765	Crystal structures of RbsD leading to the identification of cytoplasmic sugar-binding proteins with a novel folding architecture.	RbsD is the only protein whose biochemical function is unknown among the six gene products of the rbs operon involved in the active transport of ribose. FucU, a paralogue of RbsD conserved from bacteria to human, is also the only protein whose function is unknown among the seven gene products of the l-fucose regulon. Here we report the crystal structures of Bacillus subtilis RbsD, which reveals a novel decameric toroidal assembly of the protein. Nuclear magnetic resonance and other studies on RbsD reveal that the intersubunit cleft of the protein binds specific forms of d-ribose, but it does not have an enzyme activity toward the sugar. Likewise, FucU binds l-fucose but lacks an enzyme activity toward this sugar. We conclude that RbsD and FucU are cytoplasmic sugar-binding proteins, a novel class of proteins whose functional role may lie in helping influx of the sugar substrates.
12743605	SKIP3, a novel Drosophila tribbles ortholog, is overexpressed in human tumors and is regulated by hypoxia.	Regions of hypoxia are a hallmark of solid tumors. Tumor cells modulate the regulation of specific genes allowing adaptation and survival in the harsh hypoxic environment. We have identified SKIP3, a novel human kinase-like gene, which is overexpressed in multiple human tumors and is regulated by hypoxia. SKIP3 is an ortholog of the Drosophila tribbles, rat NIPK, dog C5FW, and human C8FW genes. Drosophila tribbles is involved in slowing cell-cycle progression during Drosophila development, but little is known regarding the function or tissue distribution of the vertebrate orthologs. We show that the normal tissue expression of SKIP3 is confined to human liver, while multiple primary human lung, colon, and breast tumors express high levels of SKIP3 transcript. Endogenous SKIP3 protein accumulates within 48 h under hypoxic growth conditions in HT-29 and PC-3 cells, with upregulation of the SKIP3 mRNA transcript by 72 h. We identified activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) as a SKIP3-binding partner using the yeast-two-hybrid assay. Coexpression of SKIP3 and ATF4 showed that SKIP3 is associated with the proteolysis of ATF4, which can be blocked using a proteosome inhibitor. These results indicate that SKIP3 may be an important participant in tumor cell growth.
12750383	WRN interacts physically and functionally with the recombination mediator protein RAD52.	Werner syndrome (WS) is a premature aging disorder that predisposes affected individuals to cancer development. The affected gene, WRN, encodes an RecQ homologue whose precise biological function remains elusive. Altered DNA recombination is a hallmark of WS cells suggesting that WRN plays an important role in these pathways. Here we report a novel physical and functional interaction between WRN and the homologous recombination mediator protein RAD52. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analyses show that WRN and RAD52 form a complex in vivo that co-localizes in foci associated with arrested replication forks. Biochemical studies demonstrate that RAD52 both inhibits and enhances WRN helicase activity in a DNA structure-dependent manner, whereas WRN increases the efficiency of RAD52-mediated strand annealing between non-duplex DNA and homologous sequences contained within a double-stranded plasmid. These results suggest that coordinated WRN and RAD52 activities are involved in replication fork rescue after DNA damage.
12756248	BLOC-3, a protein complex containing the Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome gene products HPS1 and HPS4.	The Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome (HPS) is a genetic disorder characterized by defective lysosome-related organelles. HPS results from mutations in either one of six human genes named HPS1 to HPS6, most of which encode proteins of unknown function. Here we report that the human HPS1 and HPS4 proteins are part of a complex named BLOC-3 (for biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex 3). Co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that epitope-tagged and endogenous HPS1 and HPS4 proteins assemble with each other in vivo. The HPS1.HPS4 complex is predominantly cytosolic, with a small amount being peripherally associated with membranes. Size exclusion chromatography and sedimentation velocity analyses of the cytosolic fraction indicate that HPS1 and HPS4 form a moderately asymmetric protein complex with a molecular mass of approximately 175 kDa. HPS4-deficient fibroblasts from light ear mice display normal distribution and trafficking of the lysosomal membrane protein, Lamp-2, in contrast to fibroblasts from AP-3-deficient pearl mice (HPS2), which exhibit increased trafficking of this lysosomal protein via the plasma membrane. Similarly, light ear fibroblasts display an apparently normal accumulation of Zn2+ in intracellular vesicles, unlike pearl fibroblasts, which exhibit a decreased intracellular Zn2+ storage. Taken together, these observations demonstrate that the HPS1 and HPS4 proteins are components of a cytosolic complex that is involved in the biogenesis of lysosomal-related organelles by a mechanism distinct from that operated by AP-3 complex.
12761180	Regulation of a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase, MLTK by PKN.	PKNalpha is a fatty acid- and Rho-activated serine/threonine protein kinase having a catalytic domain homologous to members of the protein kinase C family. Recently it was reported that PKNalpha is involved in the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. To date, however, how PKNalpha regulates the p38gamma MAPK signaling pathway is unclear. Here we demonstrate that PKNalpha efficiently phosphorylates MLTKalpha (MLK-like mitogen-activated protein triple kinase), which was recently identified as a MAPK kinase kinase (MAPKKK) for the p38 MAPK cascade. Phosphorylation of MLTKalpha by PKNalpha enhances its kinase activity in vitro. Expression of the kinase-negative mutant of PKNalpha inhibited the mobility shift of MLTKalpha caused by osmotic shock in SDS-PAGE. Furthermore, PKNalpha associates with each member of the p38gamma MAPK signaling pathway (p38gamma, MKK6, and MLTKalpha). These results suggest that PKNalpha functions as not only an upstream activator of MLTKalpha but also a putative scaffold protein for the p38gamma MAPK signaling pathway.
12769847	Phosphorylation of the WASP-VCA domain increases its affinity for the Arp2/3 complex and enhances actin polymerization by WASP.	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) and neural (N)-WASP regulate dynamic actin structures through the ability of their VCA domains to bind to and stimulate the actin nucleating activity of the Arp2/3 complex. Here we identify two phosphorylation sites in the VCA domain of WASP at serines 483 and 484. S483 and S484 are substrates for casein kinase 2 in vitro and in vivo. Phosphorylation of these residues increases the affinity of the VCA domain for the Arp2/3 complex 7-fold and is required for efficient in vitro actin polymerization by the full-length WASP molecule. We propose that constitutive VCA domain phosphorylation is required for optimal stimulation of the Arp2/3 complex by WASP.
12791994	TRB3: a tribbles homolog that inhibits Akt/PKB activation by insulin in liver.	Insulin resistance is a major hallmark in the development of type II diabetes, which is characterized by the failure of insulin to promote glucose uptake in muscle and to suppress glucose production in liver. The serine-threonine kinase Akt (PKB) is a principal target of insulin signaling that inhibits hepatic glucose output when glucose is available from food. Here we show that TRB3, a mammalian homolog of Drosophila tribbles, functions as a negative modulator of Akt. TRB3 expression is induced in liver under fasting conditions, and TRB3 disrupts insulin signaling by binding directly to Akt and blocking activation of the kinase. Amounts of TRB3 RNA and protein were increased in livers of db/db diabetic mice compared with those in wild-type mice. Hepatic overexpression of TRB3 in amounts comparable to those in db/db mice promoted hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance. Our results suggest that, by interfering with Akt activation, TRB3 contributes to insulin resistance in individuals with susceptibility to type II diabetes.
12795696	Protein interaction analysis of SCF ubiquitin E3 ligase subunits from Arabidopsis.	Ubiquitin E3 ligases are a diverse family of protein complexes that mediate the ubiquitination and subsequent proteolytic turnover of proteins in a highly specific manner. Among the several classes of ubiquitin E3 ligases, the Skp1-Cullin-F-box (SCF) class is generally comprised of three 'core' subunits: Skp1 and Cullin, plus at least one F-box protein (FBP) subunit that imparts specificity for the ubiquitination of selected target proteins. Recent genetic and biochemical evidence in Arabidopsis thaliana suggests that post-translational turnover of proteins mediated by SCF complexes is important for the regulation of diverse developmental and environmental response pathways. In this report, we extend upon a previous annotation of the Arabidopsis Skp1-like (ASK) and FBP gene families to include the Cullin family of proteins. Analysis of the protein interaction profiles involving the products of all three gene families suggests a functional distinction between ASK proteins in that selected members of the protein family interact generally while others interact more specifically with members of the F-box protein family. Analysis of the interaction of Cullins with FBPs indicates that CUL1 and CUL2, but not CUL3A, persist as components of selected SCF complexes, suggesting some degree of functional specialization for these proteins. Yeast two-hybrid analyses also revealed binary protein interactions between selected members of the FBP family in Arabidopsis. These and related results are discussed in terms of their implications for subunit composition, stoichiometry and functional diversity of SCF complexes in Arabidopsis.
12819770	Crystal structure of the apoptosis-inducing human granzyme A dimer.	Granzyme A (GzmA) belongs to a family of trypsin-like serine proteases localized in cytoplasmic granules of activated lymphocytes and natural killer (NK) cells. In contrast to the related granzyme B (GzmB), GzmA forms a stable disulfide-linked homodimer and triggers target-cell death in a caspase-independent way. Limited proteolysis of a high-molecular-mass complex containing SET (also named putative HLA-associated protein II or PHAPII), PHAPI (pp32, leucine-rich acidic nuclear protein) and HMG2 by GzmA liberates NM23-H1, a Mg2+-dependent DNase that causes single-stranded breaks in nuclear DNA. By analyzing the dimeric GzmA structure at a resolution of 2.5 A, we determined the substrate-binding constraints and selective advantages of the two domains arranged as a unique functional tandem. The active sites of the two subunits point in opposite directions and the nearby noncatalytic surfaces can function as exosites, presenting substrates to the active site region of the adjacent partner in a manner analogous to staphylokinase or streptokinase, which present plasminogen to the cofactor-plasmin and cofactor-plasminogen complexes.
12824502	Structural analysis of UBL5, a novel ubiquitin-like modifier.	UBL5 is a widely expressed human protein that is strongly conserved across phylogeny. Orthologs of UBL5 occur in every eukaryotic genome characterized to date. The yeast ortholog of UBL5, HUB1, was reported to be a ubiquitin-like protein modifier important for modulation of protein function. However, unlike ubiquitin and all other ubiquitin-like modifiers, UBL5 and its yeast ortholog HUB1 both contain a C-terminal di-tyrosine motif followed by a single variable residue instead of the characteristic di-glycine found in all other ubiquitin-like modifiers. Here we describe the three-dimensional structure of UBL5 determined by NMR. The overall structure of the protein was found to be very similar to ubiquitin despite the low approximately 25% residue similarity. The signature C-terminal di-tyrosine residues in UBL5 are involved in the final beta sheet of the protein. This is very different to the di-glycine motif found in ubiquitin, which extends beyond the final beta sheet. In addition, we have confirmed an earlier report of an interaction between UBL5 and the cyclin-like kinase, CLK4, which we have determined is specific and does not extend to other cyclin-like kinase family members.
12837548	Mitochondrial complex I from Arabidopsis and rice: orthologs of mammalian and fungal components coupled with plant-specific subunits.	The NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase of the mitochondrial respiratory chain is a large multisubunit complex in eukaryotes containing 30-40 different subunits. Analysis of this complex using blue-native gel electrophoresis coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (MS) has identified a series of 30 different proteins from the model dicot plant, Arabidopsis, and 24 different proteins from the model monocot plant, rice. These proteins have been linked back to genes from plant genome sequencing and comparison of this dataset made with predicted orthologs of complex I components in these plants. This analysis reveals that plants contain the series of 14 highly conserved complex I subunits found in other eukaryotic and related prokaryotic enzymes and a small set of 9 proteins widely found in eukaryotic complexes. A significant number of the proteins present in bovine complex I but absent from fungal complex I are also absent from plant complex I and are not encoded in plant genomes. A series of plant-specific nuclear-encoded complex I associated subunits were identified, including a series of ferripyochelin-binding protein-like subunits and a range of small proteins of unknown function. This represents a post-genomic and large-scale analysis of complex I composition in higher plants.
12837694	Myotubularin-related 2 protein phosphatase and neurofilament light chain protein, both mutated in CMT neuropathies, interact in peripheral nerve.	Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B1, CMT4B1, is a severe, autosomal-recessive, demyelinating peripheral neuropathy, due to mutations in the Myotubularin-related 2 gene, MTMR2. MTMR2 is widely expressed and encodes a phosphatase whose substrates include phosphoinositides. However, this does not explain how MTMR2 mutants specifically produce demyelination in the peripheral nerve. Therefore, we analysed the cellular and subcellular distribution of Mtmr2 in nerve. Mtmr2 was detected in all cytoplasmic compartments of myelin-forming Schwann cells, as well as in the cytoplasm of non-myelin-forming Schwann cells and both sensory and motorneurons. In contrast, Mtmr2 was detected in the nucleus of Schwann cells and motorneurons, but not in the nucleus of sensory neurons. As Mtmr2 is diffusely present also within the nerve, a specific function could derive instead from nerve-specific interacting proteins. Therefore, we performed two yeast two-hybrid screenings, using either fetal brain or peripheral nerve cDNA libraries. The neurofilament light chain protein, NF-L, was identified repeatedly in both screenings, and found to interact with MTMR2 in both Schwann cells and neurons. Interestingly, NF-L, encoding NF-L, is mutated in CMT2E. These data may provide a basis for the nerve-specific pathogenesis of CMT4B1, and further support for the notion that hereditary demyelinating and axonal neuropathies may represent different clinical manifestations of a common pathological mechanism.
12839993	Arabidopsis AXR6 encodes CUL1 implicating SCF E3 ligases in auxin regulation of embryogenesis.	The AXR6 gene is required for auxin signaling in the Arabidopsis embryo and during postembryonic development. One of the effects of auxin is to stimulate degradation of the Aux/IAA auxin response proteins through the action of the ubiquitin protein ligase SCF(TIR1). Here we show that AXR6 encodes the SCF subunit CUL1. The axr6 mutations affect the ability of mutant CUL1 to assemble into stable SCF complexes resulting in reduced degradation of the SCF(TIR1) substrate AXR2/IAA7. In addition, we show that CUL1 is required for lateral organ initiation in the shoot apical meristem and the inflorescence meristem. These results indicate that the embryonic axr6 phenotype is related to a defect in SCF function and accumulation of Aux/IAA proteins such as BDL/IAA12. In addition, we show that CUL1 has a role in auxin response throughout the life cycle of the plant.
12887588	The SPA1-like proteins SPA3 and SPA4 repress photomorphogenesis in the light.	Suppressor of phyA-105 (SPA1) is a phytochrome A-specific signaling intermediate that acts as a light-dependent repressor of photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis seedlings. SPA1 is part of a small gene family comprising three genes: SPA1-related 2 (SPA2), SPA1-related 3 (SPA3), and SPA1-related 4 (SPA4). Here, we investigate the functions of SPA3 and SPA4, two very closely related genes coding for proteins with 74% identical amino acids. Seedlings with mutations in SPA3 or SPA4 exhibit enhanced photomorphogenesis in the light, but show no phenotype in darkness. While there are small differences between the effects of spa3 and spa4 mutations, it is apparent that SPA3 and SPA4 function to inhibit light responses in continuous far-red, red, and blue light. Phytochrome A is necessary for all aspects of the spa4 mutant phenotype, suggesting that SPA4, like SPA1, acts specifically in phytochrome A signaling. Enhanced photoresponsiveness of spa3 mutants is also fully dependent on phytochrome A in far-red and blue light, but not in red light. Hence, SPA3 function in red light may be dependent on other phytochromes in addition to phytochrome A. Using yeast two-hybrid and in vitro interaction assays, we further show that SPA3 as well as SPA4 can physically interact with the constitutive repressor of light signaling COP1. Deletion analyses suggest that SPA3 and SPA4, like SPA1, bind to the coiled-coil domain of COP1. Taken together, our results have identified two new loci coding for negative regulators that may be involved in fine tuning of light responses by interacting with COP1.
12887892	Sir2 regulates skeletal muscle differentiation as a potential sensor of the redox state.	Sir2 is a NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylase that controls gene silencing, cell cycle, DNA damage repair, and life span. Prompted by the observation that the [NAD(+)]/[NADH] ratio is subjected to dynamic fluctuations in skeletal muscle, we have tested whether Sir2 regulates muscle gene expression and differentiation. Sir2 forms a complex with the acetyltransferase PCAF and MyoD and, when overexpressed, retards muscle differentiation. Conversely, cells with decreased Sir2 differentiate prematurely. To inhibit myogenesis, Sir2 requires its NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase activity. The [NAD(+)]/[NADH] ratio decreases as muscle cells differentiate, while an increased [NAD(+)]/[NADH] ratio inhibits muscle gene expression. Cells with reduced Sir2 levels are less sensitive to the inhibition imposed by an elevated [NAD(+)]/[NADH] ratio. These results indicate that Sir2 regulates muscle gene expression and differentiation by possibly functioning as a redox sensor. In response to exercise, food intake, and starvation, Sir2 may sense modifications of the redox state and promptly modulate gene expression.
12887920	Induction of TNF receptor I-mediated apoptosis via two sequential signaling complexes.	Apoptosis induced by TNF-receptor I (TNFR1) is thought to proceed via recruitment of the adaptor FADD and caspase-8 to the receptor complex. TNFR1 signaling is also known to activate the transcription factor NF-kappa B and promote survival. The mechanism by which this decision between cell death and survival is arbitrated is not clear. We report that TNFR1-induced apoptosis involves two sequential signaling complexes. The initial plasma membrane bound complex (complex I) consists of TNFR1, the adaptor TRADD, the kinase RIP1, and TRAF2 and rapidly signals activation of NF-kappa B. In a second step, TRADD and RIP1 associate with FADD and caspase-8, forming a cytoplasmic complex (complex II). When NF-kappa B is activated by complex I, complex II harbors the caspase-8 inhibitor FLIP(L) and the cell survives. Thus, TNFR1-mediated-signal transduction includes a checkpoint, resulting in cell death (via complex II) in instances where the initial signal (via complex I, NF-kappa B) fails to be activated.
12894227	Eiger and its receptor, Wengen, comprise a TNF-like system in Drosophila.	In mammals, members of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family play an important role in the regulation of cellular proliferation, differentiation and programmed cell death. We describe isolation and characterization of an orthologous ligand/receptor axis in Drosophila. The ligand, designated Eiger, is a type II membrane glycosylated protein, which can be cleaved at residue 145 and released from the cell surface as a soluble factor, thereby representing the first potential cytokine to be described in Drosophila. Eiger exists in two alternatively spliced isoforms, Eiger long (Eiger-L) and Eiger short (Eiger-s), both of which are expressed throughout development and in the adult. We also describe the isolation and characterization of a novel Drosophila member of the TNF receptor family, designated Wengen, which is a type I membrane protein that can physically interact with the recently described TRAF2 homolog dTRAF2. Both Eiger and Wengen are expressed in distinctive patterns during embryogenesis and Eiger is responsive to genotoxic stress. Forced expression of Eiger-L, Eiger-s or Wengen, caused apoptotic cell death which could be rescued by caspase inhibitors or the JNK phosphatase Puckered. In addition, Eiger-induced cell killing was attenuated by RNAi-mediated suppression of Wengen. Our results illustrate that Eiger and Wengen represent proximal components of an evolutionarily conserved TNF-like signaling pathway in Drosophila.
12897250	The Arabidopsis basic/helix-loop-helix transcription factor family.	The basic/helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins are a superfamily of transcription factors that bind as dimers to specific DNA target sites and that have been well characterized in nonplant eukaryotes as important regulatory components in diverse biological processes. Based on evidence that the bHLH protein PIF3 is a direct phytochrome reaction partner in the photoreceptor's signaling network, we have undertaken a comprehensive computational analysis of the Arabidopsis genome sequence databases to define the scope and features of the bHLH family. Using a set of criteria derived from a previously defined consensus motif, we identified 147 bHLH protein-encoding genes, making this one of the largest transcription factor families in Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic analysis of the bHLH domain sequences permits classification of these genes into 21 subfamilies. The evolutionary and potential functional relationships implied by this analysis are supported by other criteria, including the chromosomal distribution of these genes relative to duplicated genome segments, the conservation of variant exon/intron structural patterns, and the predicted DNA binding activities within subfamilies. Considerable diversity in DNA binding site specificity among family members is predicted, and marked divergence in protein sequence outside of the conserved bHLH domain is observed. Together with the established propensity of bHLH factors to engage in varying degrees of homodimerization and heterodimerization, these observations suggest that the Arabidopsis bHLH proteins have the potential to participate in an extensive set of combinatorial interactions, endowing them with the capacity to be involved in the regulation of a multiplicity of transcriptional programs. We provide evidence from yeast two-hybrid and in vitro binding assays that two related phytochrome-interacting members in the Arabidopsis family, PIF3 and PIF4, can form both homodimers and heterodimers and that all three dimeric configurations can bind specifically to the G-box DNA sequence motif CACGTG. These data are consistent, in principle, with the operation of this combinatorial mechanism in Arabidopsis.
12907709	Rpb7 subunit of RNA polymerase II interacts with an RNA-binding protein involved in processing of transcripts.	Rpb4-Rpb7, a dissociable subcomplex of RNA polymerase II (pol II), is required for transcription initiation. To understand the role of Rpb7 in transcription initiation or other processes in transcription, we carried out a two-hybrid screen for proteins that interact with Rpb7 of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The screen identified the S.pombe homolog of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Nrd1, an RNA-binding protein implicated in 3' end formation of small nucleolar and small nuclear RNAs transcribed by pol II. The S.pombe protein, named Seb1 for seven binding, was essential for cell viability, and bound directly to Rpb7 in vitro. Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rpb7 also interacted with Nrd1, indicating that the interaction is conserved in evolution. Glu166 and/or Asp167 of S.pombe Rpb7, residues near the C-terminus of the 172 amino acid protein, were found to be important for its interaction with Seb1. Our results suggest that Rpb7 may function to anchor a processing factor to the pol II apparatus, thereby coupling RNA processing to transcription. The role for Rpb7 is consistent with its location in the pol II complex determined by recent structural studies.
12923176	Direct interaction between the actin-binding protein filamin-A and the inwardly rectifying potassium channel, Kir2.1.	The role of filamins in actin cross-linking and membrane stabilization is well established, but recently their ability to interact with a variety of transmembrane receptors and signaling proteins has led to speculation of additional roles in scaffolding and signal transduction. Here we report a direct interaction between filamin-A and Kir2.1, an isoform of inwardly rectifying potassium channel expressed in vascular smooth muscle and an important regulator of vascular tone. Yeast two-hybrid screening of a porcine coronary artery cDNA library using the carboxyl terminus of Kir2.1 as bait yielded cDNA encoding a fragment of filamin-A (residues 2481-2647). Interaction between filamin-A and Kir2.1 was confirmed by in vitro overlay assay of membrane-bound Kir2.1 with glutathione S-transferase fusion protein of the isolated filamin clone. Additionally, antibodies directed against Kir2.1 coimmunoprecipitated filamin-A from arterial smooth muscle cell lysates, and immunocytochemical analysis of individual arterial smooth muscle cells showed that Kir2.1 and filamin co-localize in "hotspots" at the cell membrane. Interaction with filamin-A was found to have no effect on Kir2.1 channel behavior but, rather, increased the number of functional channels resident within the membrane. We conclude that filamin-A is potentially an important regulator of Kir2.1 surface expression and location within vascular smooth muscle.
12925767	Kinetochore protein interactions and their regulation by the Aurora kinase Ipl1p.	Although there has been a recent explosion in the identification of budding yeast kinetochore components, the physical interactions that underlie kinetochore function remain obscure. To better understand how kinetochores attach to microtubules and how this attachment is regulated, we sought to characterize the interactions among kinetochore proteins, especially with respect to the microtubule-binding Dam1 complex. The Dam1 complex plays a crucial role in the chromosome-spindle attachment and is a key target for phospho-regulation of this attachment by the Aurora kinase Ipl1p. To identify protein-protein interactions involving the Dam1 complex, and the effects of Dam1p phosphorylation state on these physical interactions, we conducted both a genome-wide two-hybrid screen and a series of biochemical binding assays for Dam1p. A two-hybrid screen of a library of 6000 yeast open reading frames identified nine kinetochore proteins as Dam1p-interacting partners. From 113 in vitro binding reactions involving all nine subunits of the Dam1 complex and 32 kinetochore proteins, we found at least nine interactions within the Dam1 complex and 19 potential partners for the Dam1 complex. Strikingly, we found that the Dam1p-Ndc80p and Dam1p-Spc34p interactions were weakened by mutations mimicking phosphorylation at Ipl1p sites, allowing us to formulate a model for the effects of phosphoregulation on kinetochore function.
12927518	IpaC of Shigella binds to the C-terminal domain of beta-catenin.	IpaC of Shigella is essential for initial bacterial entry into epithelial cells. We report here that IpaC interacts with beta-catenin and destabilizes the cadherin-mediated cell adhesion complex. Using a yeast two-hybrid system, we identified beta-catenin as a binding partner of IpaC within the host cell after cell entry, but not in the initial entry. Co-immunoprecipitation, confocal microscopy, and GST pull-down experiments confirmed the intracellular and cell-free interactions between these two proteins. The interaction sites were mapped to the ninth armadillo repeat of beta-catenin and to the C-terminus of IpaC. IpaC-associated beta-catenin was phosphorylated at tyrosine residues. This phosphorylation led to the destabilization of the functional cadherin-catenin complex, which could be a mechanism whereby the epithelial cell-cell tight adhesion is disrupted. These events may facilitate the further basolateral invasion of bacteria through the disrupted space and/or modulate the cell-to-cell spread of Shigella.
12953057	Vps20p and Vta1p interact with Vps4p and function in multivesicular body sorting and endosomal transport in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Vps4p (End13p) is an AAA-family ATPase that functions in membrane transport through endosomes, sorting of soluble vacuolar proteins to the vacuole, and multivesicular body (MVB) sorting of membrane proteins to the vacuole lumen. In a yeast two-hybrid screen with Vps4p as bait we isolated VPS20 (YMR077c) and the novel open reading frame YLR181c, for which the name VTA1 has recently been assigned (Saccharomyces Genome Database). Vps4p directly binds Vps20p and Vta1p in vitro and binding is not dependent on ATP - conversely, Vps4p binding to Vps20p is partially sensitive to ATP hydrolysis. Both ATP binding [Vps4p-(K179A)] and ATP hydrolysis [Vps4p-(E233Q)] mutant proteins exhibit enhanced binding to Vps20p and Vta1p in vitro. The Vps4p-Vps20p interaction involves the coiled-coil domain of each protein, whereas the Vps4p-Vta1p interaction involves the (non-coiled-coil) C-terminus of each protein. Deletion of either VPS20 (vps20Delta) or VTA1 (vta1Delta) leads to similar class E Vps- phenotypes resembling those of vps4Delta, including carboxypeptidase Y (CPY) secretion, a block in ubiquitin-dependent MVB sorting, and a delay in both post-internalisation endocytic transport and biosynthetic transport to the vacuole. The vacuole resident membrane protein Sna3p (whose MVB sorting is ubiquitin-independent) does not appear to exit the class E compartment or reach the vacuole in cells lacking Vps20p, Vta1p or Vps4p, in contrast to other proteins whose delivery to the vacuole is only delayed. We propose that Vps20p and Vta1p regulate Vps4p function in vivo.
12965207	The carboxyl terminal 17 amino acids within Apg7 are essential for Apg8 lipidation, but not for Apg12 conjugation.	In the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, two ubiquitin-like modifications, Apg12 conjugation with Apg5 and Apg8 lipidation with phosphatidylethanolamine, are essential for autophagy and the cytoplasm-to-vacuole transport of aminopeptidase I (Cvt pathway). As a unique E1-like enzyme, Apg7 activates two modifiers (Apg12 and Apg8) in an ATP-dependent manner and, for this activity, the carboxyl terminal 40 amino acids are essential. For a better understanding of the function of the carboxyl terminus of Apg7, we performed a sequential deletion of the region. A mutant expressing Apg7DeltaC17 protein, which lacks the carboxyl 17 amino acids of Apg7, showed defects in both the Cvt pathway and autophagy. Apg8 lipidation is inhibited in the mutant, while Apg12 conjugation occurs normally. A mutant expressing Apg7DeltaC13 protein showed a defect in the Cvt pathway, but not autophagy, suggesting that the activity of Apg7 for Apg8 lipidation is more essential for the Cvt pathway than for autophagy. Mutant Apg7DeltaC17 protein is still able to interact with Apg8, Apg12 and Apg3, and forms a homodimer, indicating that the deletion of the carboxyl terminal 17 amino acids has little effect on these interactions and Apg7 dimerization. These results suggest that the carboxyl terminal 17 amino acids of Apg7 play a specific role in Apg8 lipidation indispensable for the Cvt pathway and autophagy.
12966069	A HEAT-repeats containing protein, IaiH, stabilizes the iron-sulfur cluster bound to the cyanobacterial IscA homologue, IscA2.	IscA homologues are involved in iron-sulfur cluster biosynthesis. In the non-nitrogen-fixing cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803, there are two IscA homologues, SLR1417 and SLR1565 (designated IscA1 and IscA2), of which only IscA2 exists as a protein complex with the HEAT-repeat-containing protein, SLR1098 (IaiH). We observed that the absorption spectrum of the recombinant IscA2/IaiH complex resembles that of IscA2 alone, although it is sharper. In the presence of dithiothreitol, the [2Fe-2S] cluster of IscA2 alone, but not of the IscA2/IaiH complex, became reductively labile upon the addition of sodium dithionite. This implies that the IscA2 moiety of the [2Fe-2S] cluster is stabilized by the presence of IaiH. The [2Fe-2S] cluster of the IscA2/IaiH complex was destabilized by sodium dithionite in the absence of dithiothreitol, suggesting that the in vivo stability of the iron-sulfur cluster in the IscA2/IaiH complex is influenced by the redox state of cellular thiols. When any one of three conserved cysteine residues in IscA2, potential ligands for the [2Fe-2S] cluster, was replaced with serine, the amount of assembled [2Fe-2S] cluster and protein complex was significantly reduced in E. coli cells. The cysteine mutated IscA2/IaiH complexes that were present all contained a [2Fe-2S]-like cluster suggesting that the assembly of a stable iron-sulfur cluster bound to IscA2 is required for efficient and stable complex formation. Truncated IaiH proteins were analyzed using the yeast two-hybrid assay to identify the essential domain of IaiH that interacts physically with IscA2. At least 2 of the 5 N-terminal HEAT repeats of IaiH were found to be required for interaction with IscA2.
12970192	Arabidopsis MSI1 is a component of the MEA/FIE Polycomb group complex and required for seed development.	Seed development in angiosperms initiates after double fertilization, leading to the formation of a diploid embryo and a triploid endosperm. The active repression of precocious initiation of certain aspects of seed development in the absence of fertilization requires the Polycomb group proteins MEDEA (MEA), FERTILIZATION-INDEPENDENT ENDOSPERM (FIE) and FERTILIZATION-INDEPENDENT SEED2. Here we show that the Arabidopsis WD-40 domain protein MSI1 is present together with MEA and FIE in a 600 kDa complex and interacts directly with FIE. Mutant plants heterozygous for msi1 show a seed abortion ratio of 50% with seeds aborting when the mutant allele is maternally inherited, irrespective of a paternal wild-type or mutant MSI1 allele. Further more, msi1 mutant gametophytes initiate endosperm development in the absence of fertilization at a high penetrance. After pollination, only the egg cell becomes fertilized, the central cell starts dividing prior to fertilization, resulting in the formation of seeds containing embryos surrounded by diploid endosperm. Our results establish that MSI1 has an essential function in the correct initiation and progression of seed development.
12970493	New insights into the respiratory chain of plant mitochondria. Supercomplexes and a unique composition of complex II.	A project to systematically investigate respiratory supercomplexes in plant mitochondria was initiated. Mitochondrial fractions from Arabidopsis, potato (Solanum tuberosum), bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), and barley (Hordeum vulgare) were carefully treated with various concentrations of the nonionic detergents dodecylmaltoside, Triton X-100, or digitonin, and proteins were subsequently separated by (a) Blue-native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), (b) two-dimensional Blue-native/sodium dodecyl sulfate-PAGE, and (c) two-dimensional Blue-native/Blue-native PAGE. Three high molecular mass complexes of 1,100, 1,500, and 3,000 kD are visible on one-dimensional Blue native gels, which were identified by separations on second gel dimensions and protein analyses by mass spectrometry. The 1,100-kD complex represents dimeric ATP synthase and is only stable under very low concentrations of detergents. In contrast, the 1,500-kD complex is stable at medium and even high concentrations of detergents and includes the complexes I and III(2). Depending on the investigated organism, 50% to 90% of complex I forms part of this supercomplex if solubilized with digitonin. The 3,000-kD complex, which also includes the complexes I and III, is of low abundance and most likely has a III(4)I(2) structure. The complexes IV, II, and the alternative oxidase were not part of supercomplexes under all conditions applied. Digitonin proved to be the ideal detergent for supercomplex stabilization and also allows optimal visualization of the complexes II and IV on Blue-native gels. Complex II unexpectedly was found to be composed of seven subunits, and complex IV is present in two different forms on the Blue-native gels, the larger of which comprises additional subunits including a 32-kD protein resembling COX VIb from other organisms. We speculate that supercomplex formation between the complexes I and III limits access of alternative oxidase to its substrate ubiquinol and possibly regulates alternative respiration. The data of this investigation are available at http://www.gartenbau.uni-hannover.de/genetik/braun/AMPP.
13679922	BTB proteins are substrate-specific adaptors in an SCF-like modular ubiquitin ligase containing CUL-3.	Programmed destruction of regulatory proteins through the ubiquitin-proteasome system is a widely used mechanism for controlling signalling pathways. Cullins are proteins that function as scaffolds for modular ubiquitin ligases typified by the SCF (Skp1-Cul1-F-box) complex. The substrate selectivity of these E3 ligases is dictated by a specificity module that binds cullins. In the SCF complex, this module is composed of Skp1, which binds directly to Cul1, and a member of the F-box family of proteins. F-box proteins bind Skp1 through the F-box motif, and substrates by means of carboxy-terminal protein interaction domains. Similarly, Cul2 and Cul5 interact with BC-box-containing specificity factors through the Skp1-like protein elongin C. Cul3 is required for embryonic development in mammals and Caenorhabditis elegans but its specificity module is unknown. Here we report the identification of a large family of BTB-domain proteins as substrate-specific adaptors for C. elegans CUL-3. Biochemical studies using the BTB protein MEL-26 and its genetic target MEI-1 (refs 12, 13) indicate that BTB proteins merge the functional properties of Skp1 and F-box proteins into a single polypeptide.
14500717	Serine/threonine kinase Mirk/Dyrk1B is an inhibitor of epithelial cell migration and is negatively regulated by the Met adaptor Ran-binding protein M.	Minibrain-related kinase (Mirk)/Dyrk1B is an arginine-directed serine/threonine kinase that is active in skeletal muscle development but is also expressed in various carcinomas. In the current study, the Met adaptor protein Ran-binding protein M (RanBPM) was identified as a Mirk-binding protein by yeast two-hybrid analysis. The Mirk-RanBPM association was confirmed by glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays, co-immunoprecipitation studies, and in vivo cross-linking. Met plays an important role in tumor cell invasion and cell migration. RanBPM has been reported to bind to the tyrosine kinase domain of the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) receptor Met, enhance Met downstream signaling, and enhance HGF-induced A704 kidney carcinoma cell invasion (Wang, D., Li, Z., Messing, E. M., and Wu, G. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277, 36216-36222). We made a stable Mirk-inducible subline from nontransformed Mv1Lu lung epithelial cells and now demonstrate that induction of Mirk inhibited the migration of these cells in wounding experiments and inhibited their invasion through polycarbonate Transwell filters. Furthermore the ability of Mirk to inhibit Mv1Lu cell migration was attenuated when cells were exposed to HGF or to elevated levels of transiently expressed RanBPM. RanBPM inhibited the kinase activity of Mirk/Dyrk1B and Dyrk1A. In addition, RanBPM and HGF inhibited the function of Mirk as a transcriptional coactivator. Our findings suggest that Mirk plays a role in modulating cell migration through opposing the action of the Met signaling cascade adaptor protein RanBPM.
14504388	A novel domain in the protein kinase SOS2 mediates interaction with the protein phosphatase 2C ABI2.	SOS2 (salt overly sensitive 2) is a serine/threonine protein kinase required for salt tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, we identified the protein phosphatase 2C ABI2 (abscisic acid-insensitive 2) as a SOS2-interacting protein. Deletion analysis led to the discovery of a novel protein domain of 37 amino acid residues, designated as the protein phosphatase interaction (PPI) motif, of SOS2 that is necessary and sufficient for interaction with ABI2. The PPI motif is conserved in protein kinases of the SOS2 family (i.e., protein kinase S, PKS) and in the DNA damage repair and replication block checkpoint kinase, Chk1, from various organisms including humans. Mutations in the conserved amino acid residues in the PPI motif abolish the interaction of SOS2 with ABI2. We also identified a protein kinase interaction domain in ABI2 and examined the interaction specificity between PKS and the ABI phosphatases. We found that some PKSs interact strongly with ABI2 whereas others interact preferentially with ABI1. The interaction between SOS2 and ABI2 was disrupted by the abi2-1 mutation, which causes increased tolerance to salt shock and abscisic acid insensitivity in plants. Our results establish the PPI motif and the protein kinase interaction domain as novel protein interaction domains that mediate the binding between the SOS2 family of protein kinases and the ABI1/2 family of protein phosphatases.
14528018	Vacuole size control: regulation of PtdIns(3,5)P2 levels by the vacuole-associated Vac14-Fig4 complex, a PtdIns(3,5)P2-specific phosphatase.	In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,5)P2) is synthesized by a single phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate 5-kinase, Fab1. Cells deficient in PtdIns(3,5)P2 synthesis exhibit a grossly enlarged vacuole morphology, whereas increased levels of PtdIns(3,5)P2 provokes the formation of multiple small vacuoles, suggesting a specific role for PtdIns(3,5)P2 in vacuole size control. Genetic studies have indicated that Fab1 kinase is positively regulated by Vac7 and Vac14; deletion of either gene results in ablation of PtdIns(3,5)P2 synthesis and the formation of a grossly enlarged vacuole. More recently, a suppressor of vac7Delta mutants was identified and shown to encode a putative phosphoinositide phosphatase, Fig4. We demonstrate that Fig4 is a magnesium-activated PtdIns(3,5)P2-selective phosphoinositide phosphatase in vitro. Analysis of a Fig4-GFP fusion protein revealed that the Fig4 phosphatase is localized to the limiting membrane of the vacuole. Surprisingly, in the absence of Vac14, Fig4-GFP no longer localizes to the vacuole. However, Fig4-GFP remains localized to the grossly enlarged vacuoles of vac7 deletion mutants. Consistent with these observations, we found that Fig4 physically associates with Vac14 in a common membrane-associated complex. Our studies indicate that Vac14 both positively regulates Fab1 kinase activity and directs the localization/activation of the Fig4 PtdIns(3,5)P2 phosphatase.
14532282	HCF-1 functions as a coactivator for the zinc finger protein Krox20.	HCF-1 is a transcriptional cofactor required for activation of herpes simplex virus immediate-early genes by VP16 as well as less clearly defined roles in cell proliferation, cytokinesis, and spliceosome formation. It is expressed as a large precursor that undergoes proteolysis to yield two subunits that remain stably associated. VP16 uses a degenerate 4-amino acid sequence, known as the HCF-binding motif, to bind to a six-bladed beta-propeller domain at the N terminus of HCF-1. Functional HCF-binding motifs are also found in LZIP and Zhangfei, two cellular bZIP transcription factors of unknown function. Here we show that the HCF-binding motif occurs in a wide spectrum of DNA-binding proteins and transcriptional cofactors. Three well characterized examples were further analyzed for their ability to use HCF-1 as a coactivator. Krox20, a zinc finger transcription factor required for Schwann cell differentiation, and E2F4, a cell cycle regulator, showed a strong requirement for functional HCF-1 to activate transcription. In contrast, activation by estrogen receptor-alpha did not display HCF dependence. In Krox20, the HCF-binding motif lies within the N-terminal activation domain and mutation of this sequence diminishes both transactivation and association with the HCF-1 beta-propeller. The activation domain in the C-terminal subunit of HCF-1 contributes to activation by Krox20, possibly through recruitment of p300. These results suggest that HCF-1 is recruited by many different classes of cellular transcription factors and is therefore likely to be required for a variety of cellular processes including cell cycle progression and development.
14555696	MADS-box protein complexes control carpel and ovule development in Arabidopsis.	The AGAMOUS (AG) gene is necessary for stamen and carpel development and is part of a monophyletic clade of MADS-box genes that also includes SHATTERPROOF1 (SHP1), SHP2, and SEEDSTICK (STK). Here, we show that ectopic expression of either the STK or SHP gene is sufficient to induce the transformation of sepals into carpeloid organs bearing ovules. Moreover, the fact that these organ transformations occur when the STK gene is expressed ectopically in ag mutants shows that STK can promote carpel development in the absence of AG activity. We also show that STK, AG, SHP1, and SHP2 can form multimeric complexes and that these interactions require the SEPALLATA (SEP) MADS-box proteins. We provide genetic evidence for this role of the SEP proteins by showing that a reduction in SEP activity leads to the loss of normal ovule development, similar to what occurs in stk shp1 shp2 triple mutants. Together, these results indicate that the SEP proteins, which are known to form multimeric complexes in the control of flower organ identity, also form complexes to control normal ovule development.
14559250	Type 1 angiotensin II receptor-associated protein ARAP1 binds and recycles the receptor to the plasma membrane.	The carboxyl terminus of the type 1 angiotensin II receptor (AT(1)) plays an important role in receptor phosphorylation, desensitization, and internalization. The yeast two-hybrid system was employed to isolate proteins associated with the carboxyl terminal region of the AT(1A) receptor. In the present study, we report the isolation of a novel protein, ARAP1, which promotes recycling of AT(1A) to the plasma membrane in HEK-293 cells. ARAP1 cDNA encodes a 493-amino-acid protein and its mRNA is ubiquitously expressed in rat tissues. A complex of ARAP1 and AT(1A) was observed by immunoprecipitation and Western blotting in HEK-293 cells. In the presence of ARAP1, recycled AT(1A) showed a significant Ca(2+) release response to a second stimulation by Ang II 30 min after the first treatment. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed co-localization of recycled AT(1A) and ARAP1 in the plasma membrane 45 min after the initial exposure to Ang II. Taken together, these results indicate a role for ARAP1 in the recycling of the AT(1) receptor to the plasma membrane with presumable concomitant recovery of receptor signal functions.
14565952	Megakaryoblastic leukemia-1/2, a transcriptional co-activator of serum response factor, is required for skeletal myogenic differentiation.	Serum response factor (SRF) is required for the expression of a wide variety of muscle-specific genes that are expressed upon differentiation and is thus required for both striated and smooth muscle differentiation in addition to its role in regulating growth factor-inducible genes. A heart and smooth muscle-specific SRF co-activator, myocardin, has been shown to be required for cardiac development and smooth muscle differentiation. However, no such co-factors of SRF have been identified in the skeletal myogenic differentiation program. Myocardin and the related transcription factor megakaryoblastic leukemia-1 (MKL1/MAL/MRTF-A) can strongly potentiate the activity of SRF. Here we report the cloning of the third member of the myocardin/MKL family in humans, MKL2. MKL2 binds to and activates SRF similar to myocardin and MKL1. To determine the role of these factors in skeletal myogenic differentiation we used a dominant negative MKL2 to show that the MKL family of proteins is required for skeletal myogenic differentiation. Expression of the dominant negative protein in C2C12 skeletal myoblasts blocked the differentiation-induced expression of the SRF target genes skeletal alpha-actin and alpha-myosin heavy chain and blocked differentiation of the myoblasts to myotubes in vitro. C2C12 cells express both MKL1 and MKL2, but not myocardin, implicating MKL1 and/or MKL2 in the requirement for skeletal myogenic differentiation. MKL1 was predominantly cytoplasmic in C2C12 cells, with a small amount in the nucleus, however, no movement of MKL1 to the nucleus was observed upon differentiation.
14586471	ATP-dependent reduction of cysteine-sulphinic acid by S. cerevisiae sulphiredoxin.	Proteins contain thiol-bearing cysteine residues that are sensitive to oxidation, and this may interfere with biological function either as 'damage' or in the context of oxidant-dependent signal transduction. Cysteine thiols oxidized to sulphenic acid are generally unstable, either forming a disulphide with a nearby thiol or being further oxidized to a stable sulphinic acid. Cysteine-sulphenic acids and disulphides are known to be reduced by glutathione or thioredoxin in biological systems, but cysteine-sulphinic acid derivatives have been viewed as irreversible protein modifications. Here we identify a yeast protein of relative molecular mass M(r) = 13,000, which we have named sulphiredoxin (identified by the US spelling 'sulfiredoxin', in the Saccharomyces Genome Database), that is conserved in higher eukaryotes and reduces cysteine-sulphinic acid in the yeast peroxiredoxin Tsa1. Peroxiredoxins are ubiquitous thiol-containing antioxidants that reduce hydroperoxides and control hydroperoxide-mediated signalling in mammals. The reduction reaction catalysed by sulphiredoxin requires ATP hydrolysis and magnesium, involving a conserved active-site cysteine residue which forms a transient disulphide linkage with Tsa1. We propose that reduction of cysteine-sulphinic acids by sulphiredoxin involves activation by phosphorylation followed by a thiol-mediated reduction step. Sulphiredoxin is important for the antioxidant function of peroxiredoxins, and is likely to be involved in the repair of proteins containing cysteine-sulphinic acid modifications, and in signalling pathways involving protein oxidation.
14594798	Interaction of human HSP22 (HSPB8) with other small heat shock proteins.	Mammalian small heat shock proteins (sHSP) are abundant in muscles and are implicated in both muscle function and myopathies. Recently a new sHSP, HSP22 (HSPB8, H11), was identified in the human heart by its interaction with HSP27 (HSPB1). Using phylogenetic analysis we show that HSP22 is a true member of the sHSP superfamily. sHSPs interact with each other and form homo- and hetero-oligomeric complexes. The function of these complexes is poorly understood. Using gel filtration HPLC, the yeast two-hybrid method, immunoprecipitation, cross-linking, and fluorescence resonance energy transfer microscopy, we report that (i). HSP22 forms high molecular mass complexes in the heart, (ii). HSP22 interacts with itself, cvHSP (HSPB7), MKBP (HSPB2) and HSP27, and (iii). HSP22 has two binding domains (N- and C-terminal) that are specific for different binding partners. HSP22 homo-dimers are formed through N-N and N-C interactions, and HSP22-cvHSP hetero-dimers through C-C interaction. HSP22-MKBP and HSP22-HSP27 hetero-dimers involve the N and C termini of HSP22 and HSP27, respectively, but appear to require full-length protein as a binding partner.
14594800	Calmodulin binding to the Fas death domain. Regulation by Fas activation.	Fas (APO-1/CD95) is a cell surface receptor that initiates apoptotic pathways, and its cytoplasmic domain interacts with various molecules suggesting that Fas signaling is complex and regulated by multiple proteins. Calmodulin (CaM) is an intracellular Ca(2+)-binding protein, and it mediates many of the effects of Ca2+. Here, we demonstrate that CaM binds to Fas directly and identify the CaM-binding site on the cytoplasmic death domain (DD) of Fas. Fas binds to CaM-Sepharose and is co-immunoprecipitated with CaM. Other death receptors, such as tumor necrosis factor receptor, DR4, and DR5 do not bind to CaM. The interaction between Fas and CaM is Ca(2+)-dependent. Deletion mapping analysis with various GST-fused Fas cytoplasmic domain fragments revealed that the fragment containing helices 1, 2, and 3 of the Fas DD has the CaM-binding ability. Sequence analysis of this fragment predicted a potential CaM-binding site in helix 2 and connected loops. A valine 254 to asparagine mutation in this region, which is analogous to the identified mutant allele of Fas in lpr mice that have a deficiency in Fas-mediated apoptosis, showed reduced CaM binding. Computer modeling of the interaction between CaM and helix 2 of the Fas DD predicted that amino acids, which are important for Fas-CaM binding, and point mutations of these amino acids caused reduced Fas-CaM binding. The interaction between Fas and CaM is increased approximately 2-fold early upon Fas activation (at 30 min) and is decreased to approximately 50% of control at 2 h. These findings suggest a novel function of CaM in Fas-mediated apoptosis.
14596824	High-throughput methods to detect dimerization of Bcl-2 family proteins.	Members of the Bcl-2 family are critical regulators of apoptosis. Antiapoptotic family proteins such as Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) function, at least in part, by binding proapoptotic members such as Bax and Bak and thereby preventing release of apoptotic proteins, including cytochrome c, from the mitochondria. "BH3-only" members of the family disrupt this interaction by binding, via their BH3 domain, to a hydrophobic pocket on the surface of the antiapoptotic members. Disruption of heterodimerizations by small-molecule inhibitors could be used to modulate cell death in both cancer (to increase apoptosis) and degenerative disorders (to decrease apoptosis), and assays are necessary to screen compound libraries. Fluorescence polarization and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay-based methods to detect Bcl-2 protein interactions have been described. Here, two further methods that are rapid, "mix and read," homogeneous reactions, insensitive to compound autofluorescence, and amenable to high-throughput screening, are described: a scintillation proximity assay and a time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer assay (HTRF). The assays are designed using tags such that different Bcl-2 family members or BH3 domain peptides can be readily applied to either format, as exemplified by the use here of histidine-tagged Bcl-x(L) and biotinylated BH3 peptides.
14597662	The COP1-SPA1 interaction defines a critical step in phytochrome A-mediated regulation of HY5 activity.	Arabidopsis COP1 is a constitutive repressor of photomorphogenesis that interacts with photomorphogenesis-promoting factors such as HY5 to promote their proteasome-mediated degradation. SPA1 is a repressor of phytochrome A-mediated responses to far-red light. Here we report that COP1 acts as part of a large protein complex and interacts with SPA1 in a light-dependent manner. We further demonstrate the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of COP1 on HY5 in vitro and the alteration of that activity by SPA1. Thus, the COP1-SPA1 interaction defines a critical step in coordinating COP1-mediated ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of HY5 with PHYA signaling.
14603251	TACC1-chTOG-Aurora A protein complex in breast cancer.	The three human TACC (transforming acidic coiled-coil) genes encode a family of proteins with poorly defined functions that are suspected to play a role in oncogenesis. A Xenopus TACC homolog called Maskin is involved in translational control, while Drosophila D-TACC interacts with the microtubule-associated protein MSPS (Mini SPindleS) to ensure proper dynamics of spindle pole microtubules during cell division. We have delineated here the interactions of TACC1 with four proteins, namely the microtubule-associated chTOG (colonic and hepatic tumor-overexpressed gene) protein (ortholog of Drosophila MSPS), the adaptor protein TRAP (tudor repeat associator with PCTAIRE2), the mitotic serine/threonine kinase Aurora A and the mRNA regulator LSM7 (Like-Sm protein 7). To measure the relevance of the TACC1-associated complex in human cancer we have examined the expression of the three TACC, chTOG and Aurora A in breast cancer using immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays. We show that expressions of TACC1, TACC2, TACC3 and Aurora A are significantly correlated and downregulated in a subset of breast tumors. Using siRNAs, we further show that depletion of chTOG and, to a lesser extent of TACC1, perturbates cell division. We propose that TACC proteins, which we also named 'Taxins', control mRNA translation and cell division in conjunction with microtubule organization and in association with chTOG and Aurora A, and that these complexes and cell processes may be affected during mammary gland oncogenesis.
